Ten years ago, Alexander Krasnogorodtsev, an artist from St. Petersburg, told his parents he was going on a trip to the White Sea to paint Russia’s northern landscapes and would be off the grid for a while. 
Instead, the 24-year-old drove to Rostov-on-Don, a city about 1,500 kilometers to the south, crossed the Ukrainian border and joined the pro-Russia militias that had just launched an armed uprising against the government in Kyiv. 
Krasnogorodtsev is among the thousands of Russian citizens who, in the spring and summer of 2014, joined the armed insurgency in eastern Ukraine that marked the initial phase of Russia's covert invasion of its neighbor. 
During the conflict's early stages, Russia refrained from direct military intervention in eastern Ukraine. Instead, it carried out information warfare and provided limited material support to local insurgents. 
To maintain plausible deniability, Russia largely relied on a network of nationalist and paramilitary organizations that recruited, trained and dispatched volunteers to the front lines. 
The Moscow Times interviewed several men who fought as volunteers or organized the recruitment of volunteers in the Donbas about the events of the spring and summer of 2014. 
These events would set off a bitter eight-year conflict between Kyiv and Moscow-backed forces that saw over 14,000 soldiers and civilians killed and was eventually subsumed by the Kremlin’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. 
Motivations 
Russian citizens who joined the Donbas conflict in the spring of 2014 were backers of the insurgency against Ukraine's new pro-Western government formed after the Maidan Revolution, which they saw as illegitimate and believed encroached on the rights of Russian speakers in the country. 
The Ukrainian parliament’s move in February 2014 to strip Russian and other minority languages of their official language status was a particular source of anger. The tragedy in Odesa on May 2, when dozens of pro-Russian activists died in clashes with pro-Maidan protesters, also motivated many Russian volunteers to join the insurgency. 
Many among them were Russian nationalists and imperialists who saw the uprising as an opportunity to resurrect "Novorossiya," or New Russia, an imperial-era term referring to swathes of southeastern Ukraine. 
The Russian nation strives with all possible means to return its historical lands,” Krasnogodotsev told The Moscow Times of his motivations at the time. It is a matter of historical survival, preserving itself as a nation.” 
As anti-Maidan protests spread across eastern Ukraine in March 2014, he actively sought a way to participate in the uprising. 
I couldn’t limit myself to humanitarian aid or financial support,” he said. 
Eventually, an acquaintance from the Russian All-Military Union, a paramilitary nationalist group, contacted him on social media and told him about the group’s recruitment drive for volunteers to join the fighting in Donbas. 
Although the closest thing he had to military experience was his time playing strikeball, Krasnogorodtsev didn't hesitate. 
Back then it was just about ideals since there was no money involved,” remembers Pavel Eremeev, 41, another former volunteer from St. Petersburg. 
In the summer of 2014, he left his job as a senior accountant and joined the militia of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic to help other Russian people like him who were rebelling.” 
The trigger of war 
Until early April, the conflict in eastern Ukraine was mostly limited to street clashes between supporters of Maidan and backers of Russia. 
But on April 12, a group of armed men led by former FSB officer Igor "Strelkov" Girkin crossed from Russia into Ukraine. This group, made up of both Russians and Ukrainians, with the help of local fighters, seized control of the Sloviansk administrative building, taking control of the city. 
The next day, the government in Kyiv announced the start of an anti-terrorist operation against the insurgents. 
Girkin later claimed responsibility for pulling the trigger of the war” in Donbas, despite the Kremlin's insistence that Russia was not involved. If it wasn’t for him and his unit, Girkin said, the uprising would have probably fizzled out as it did in Kharkiv, where Ukrainian law enforcement re-established control over administrative buildings. 
Other participants of those events agreed that Girkin and his group of volunteers played a key role in the conflict’s escalation. 
Back then they [pro-Maidan and anti-Maidan activists] were all citizens of Ukraine and people were not morally ready to shoot at each other,” said Alexei Selivanov, 44, a former Ukrainian official and pro-Russian rebel who is currently serving in the Russian military on Moscow-occupied Ukrainian territory. 
Strelkov was ready for a decisive transition into an armed confrontation,” he continued. 
The rebels couldn’t really resist the regular Ukrainian army,” said Stanislav Vorobyov, 63, the head of the Russian Imperial Movement, an ultra-nationalist organization based in St. Petersburg that was recruiting volunteers for the fighting in Donbas. 
Without the Russian volunteers, there would have been no victorious uprising,” he said. 
In 2022, Girkin was convicted by an international court for the downing of civilian flight MH17 and sentenced to life in prison in absentia. The same court also ruled that Girkin’s forces at the time were de facto under Russia’s control. 
He was sentenced to Russian prison in March 2024 on charges linked to his criticism of Russia’s war strategy during its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
Russian non-state actors 
A network of Russian nationalist and paramilitary organizations played a major role in organizing, training and sending volunteers to fight in the Donbas with Moscow’s tacit consent. 
Girkin said his mission was funded by conservative oligarch Konstantin Malofeyev, a claim the latter denied. 
The Russian Imperial Movement claimed to have recruited at least 300 people to fight in the Donbas in 2014-2015. The organization’s military wing, the Imperial Legion, provided a two-week training course to volunteers before sending them to Ukraine. 
Every two weeks we would send 10 men,” recalls Vorobyov, who claims their activities were funded exclusively by volunteer donations. 
In 2021, the Russian Imperial Movement was designated as a terrorist group by the United States and Canada. 
We would meet them in Rostov, drive them across the border and send them to Sloviansk,” remembers Pavel Gubarev, a former Ukrainian citizen and pro-Russian separatist leader who personally oversaw the recruitment of volunteer fighters. 
His organization facilitated Girkin and his men's crossing over the border by using a van that was allegedly smuggling a cargo of apples into Ukraine. 
According to Gubarev, his organization alone recruited about 2,000 volunteers from Russia from May to September 2014. He estimated that up to 20-30% of the separatist army in the summer of 2014 was made up of Russian citizens, while the rest were locals. 
Gubarev noted that there was little screening during the recruitment process, allowing physically unfit individuals and former convicts to join the militia's ranks. 
We were very much in need of manpower,” Gubarev remembers. You can’t fight? Everyone can dig [trenches], you have legs and hands, please get to work.” 
Many volunteers coming from Russia already had combat experience from previous conflicts in Afghanistan and Chechnya and often took on leadership roles in the armed uprising. 
They were the backbone around which people who were willing to fight would gather,” said Vorobyov. 
There was a need for people with combat experience so people coming from Russia would become instructors,” said Selivanov. 
Crossing the border 
Like many other volunteers, Krasnogorodtsev crossed the Ukrainian border illegally in late June, bypassing official checkpoints that were still under the Ukrainian authorities’ control at the time. 
The border as such didn‘t exist so it was possible to cross the border through the fields,” the volunteer recalled. 
After reaching the other side, he was sent to the Sloviansk front without any military training. 
Back then, Russia’s military support was very limited and separatists were facing severe weapon and ammunition shortages. 
For Russia we were like luggage without handles — it’s hard to carry, but a pity to throw it away,” Krasnogorodtsev said, using a Russian proverb to describe the Russian government’s hesitant approach in supporting the separatist cause. 
The volunteer recalls his unit fighting with rusted Kalashnikovs and grenade launchers dating back to World War II. 
As part of Girkin's garrison, he struggled to hold the city, hoping for Russia to intervene like it did in Crimea. However, this intervention never materialized. By early July, Strelkov and his men were forced to abandon the city, which was then liberated by Ukrainian troops. 
By this time, the armed uprising had spread to other cities in the Donbas region. 
Following their retreat from Sloviansk, Krasnogorodtsev and his unit were deployed to defend the separatist-held city of Ilovaisk near Donetsk. It was there that he was wounded in the arm from grenade shrapnel and had to return to Russia. 
Despite a continuous influx of Russian volunteers, the tide of battle began to shift in the Ukrainian army’s favor by late summer. 
Our situation was critical,” remembers Krasnogorodtsev. Strelkov didn’t have enough people, primarily people with proper training who could become competent commanders.” 
To prevent the pro-Russian separatists’ imminent defeat, Moscow escalated its covert support in August by deploying regular troops disguised as "vacationers" — Russian soldiers on leave. 
Despite Russia's persistent denial of direct military involvement, independent media reports confirmed the presence of regular Russian soldiers engaged in combat in Ukraine. 
By late August, Girkin resigned as defense minister of the Donetsk People's Republic and was replaced by leaders directly controlled by Moscow. 
Following Russia's military intervention, separatist forces inflicted a heavy defeat on Ukrainian forces in Ilovaisk in August and later in Debaltseve in February 2015. 
Precisely these divisions changed the course of the war when we were about to be defeated,” Gubarev remembers. 
At that point, Moscow and Kyiv signed the second Minsk agreement, which marked the end of the active phase of the conflict in Donbas. 
Many volunteers interviewed by The Moscow Times criticized the Minsk agreement as a missed opportunity to inflict a devastating defeat on Ukraine when it was still unprepared to face a large-scale Russian offensive. 
After that, we could have gone forward and captured the whole of Ukraine with no resistance, but that decision was not taken and now we all understand what a catastrophic and terrible mistake that was,” Gubarev said, referring to the grinding conflict raging in Ukraine today. 
That was treason,” Vorobyov said. 
Banging your head against the defenses that the Ukrainian armed forces built for 10 years is not the peak of military art,” Krasnosgorodtsev agreed. 
Full-scale invasion 
Krasnogorodtsev went back to Russia in 2014 because of his injuries and waited for years for the conflict to reignite. When Moscow launched its full-scale invasion in February 2022, he decided not to return to battle, as he had just gotten engaged. 
Since this issue is being dealt with on a state level by people who were specifically trained, let them take care of it,” says Krasnogorodtsev, who now works as an art teacher and painter in St. Petersburg. 
Other 2014 volunteers are still fighting in Ukraine as part of Russia’s conventional army in a war that is described by Ukraine and its allies as existential for its independence. 
Today, the Russian Imperial Movement is still training soldiers in St. Petersburg for the war in Ukraine as part of a private military company under the command of the Defense Ministry. 
Eremeev is now about to sign his second six-month contract with the Russian army and go back to the front. 
It could have happened more quickly, but still not bad,” Eremeev says, referring to the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. I wish we could have come to Odesa when we were a bit younger, but we are still not that old after all.” 
Over 15% of Russians who left the country following the invasion of Ukraine and the Kremlin’s partial” military mobilization have since returned, either temporarily or permanently, the Financial Times reported Wednesday, citing new research. 
Researchers Emil Kamalov and Ivetta Sergeeva from the European University Institute in Florence, Italy conducted a long-term survey of 5,000 Russian emigres in 60 countries called OutRush. 
According to the researchers, survey participants tended to be young, politically active and highly educated compared to Russia’s overall population. 
It’s definitely not an economic migration in the classical sense,” Sergeeva told the Financial Times. These are people who have been very competent specialists in Russia and are now losing the money, the status … For many people, the quality of life is declining [abroad].” 
Work is very bad, visas are bad too, so some people come back and some don’t,” anthropologist Alexandra Arkhipova told the Financial Times. 
The newspaper added that the authorities have managed to maintain a vestige of normality” and economic stability, at least in Moscow, amid the war. 
Russia saw two historic waves of outward migration in 2022: one in the spring following the full-scale invasion of Ukraine and one in the fall after the mobilization announcement. 
According to Kirill Rogov, a political scientist at the Re:Russia project, more than 820,000 people have left Russia since February 2022. 
Many fled out of opposition to the war on Ukraine, fears of economic collapse, or a refusal to be sent to the battlefield. 
President Vladimir Putin initially described this outflow as a natural and necessary cleansing of society” of scum and traitors” in March 2022. 
By June 2023, he had shifted tone, describing Russians who remain abroad as an additional element connecting Russia and those countries with which we are already developing economic and humanitarian contacts,” and claimed that modest estimates” found that 50% of those who had left after February 2022 had since returned. 
In contrast, officials like Deputy Security Council Chairman Dmitry Medvedev and State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin have called for harsh punishments on Russians who have fled the war. 
Volodin said returning emigres should be sent to mines in a Far East region known for its Soviet-era Gulag prison camps, accusing them of committing despicable deeds, rejoicing at shots fired towards the territory of Russia,” and wishing for the victory of the Nazi, bloody regime in Kyiv.” 
Following Volodin’s remarks, the Kremlin said that Russia was indeed not on the same path” as those who took a pronounced anti-Russian position and sided with the Kyiv regime.” 
But,” added Putin’s spokesman Dmitry Peskov, these people always, no matter what, have their homeland. This homeland is Russia, and it is always waiting for them.” 
Sixteen Russian nationals have been killed and nine remain missing in the war between Israel and Hamas militants, Russia’s Ambassador to Israel Anatoly Viktorov said Tuesday. 
All 16 of those killed also had Israeli citizenship, the state-run TASS news agency quoted Viktorov as saying. 
One dual Russian-Israeli citizen is listed among the hostages taken by Hamas, Viktorov added during a press conference. 
The diplomat said the Russian Embassy in Tel Aviv has fielded more than 5,000 calls and emails in the 10 days since the conflict broke out. 
We maintain constant communication with the citizens of our country who are there [in Israel and Palestine],” Viktorov said. We’re making active efforts to minimize the threat to the lives and health of our compatriots.” 
He noted that the Russian Embassy does not plan to carry out emergency evacuations of its citizens. 
More than 300 people signed up for outbound flights in anticipation that they may happen in the future. But I think some of them have already taken regular flights,” Viktorov said. 
Hamas fighters stormed through the heavily fortified border with Israel on Oct. 7 in what became the bloodiest attack in the Jewish state’s 75-year history. 
More than 1,400 Israelis were killed in the attack, while at least 2,750 Palestinians have been confirmed dead in Israel’s retaliatory air strikes on the Gaza Strip. 
More than 1 million people have been displaced inside the densely populated Palestinian territory in anticipation of an Israeli ground offensive. Around half a million Israelis have been evacuated and displaced in Israel. 
In a phone call with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Monday, President Vladimir Putin said Moscow has taken steps to promote normalization” and find a peaceful settlement” to the conflict. 
Observers viewed the talks as a sign of the Kremlin’s efforts to maintain influence in the region. 
Russia has maintained traditionally good relations with both Israeli and Palestinian authorities but has not explicitly condemned the Hamas attack. 
Emergency service workers in Moscow have evacuated 200 people stranded by flooding on the city's streets, the TASS news agency reported Monday. 
Some 80 people were rescued from their vehicles on Kaspiyskaya Ulitsa in the south of the capital. 
Similar operations were carried out on Ulitsa Akademika Anokhina in the city's south-west, and on Ochakovskoye Shosse in the west. 
Heavy rains began in Moscow on Sunday afternoon, with more than half of the average rainfall for August hitting the city in a single night. The rain is expected to continue until late Monday evening. 
A video posted by Илья Шеленев | Москва (@ishelenev) on Aug 15, 2016 at 12:08am PDT 
A photo posted by Светлана Тюкалова (@svetatyukalova) on Aug 13, 2016 at 3:16am PDT 
A photo posted by tvorchestvo_Ira Afremova (@afremus) on Aug 15, 2016 at 6:47am PDT 
2022 in Photos: How Putin's Ukraine Gamble Became a Quagmire 
Dec 31, 2022 - 06:16 pm 
The past year has been almost entirely dominated by the seismic repercussions of Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision to invade Ukraine on Feb. 24 in a full-scale attack that he believed would see his troops swiftly take Kyiv. Of course, the invasion didn't go as Putin had planned. From the unexpected ferocity of Ukrainian resistance, Western supplies of modern weapons and equipment to Kyiv and unanimous European support for economic sanctions on Moscow, the fallout from the war for Russia has been far-reaching. At the same time, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has transformed from political neophyte to inspirational wartime leader. As the biggest conflict in Europe since World War II grinds on, we look back at some of the events that shaped 2022 in Russia and Ukraine. 
February. Russia 
A man stages a solitary anti-war picket on Moscow's Pushkin Square. Some 19,478 people were detained in Russia for speaking out against the invasion of Ukraine in 2022. 
Igor Generalov 
February. Russia 
Protesters in Moscow hold a sign that reads "No one but Putin needs the war!" Several thousand Russians were arrested for attending anti-war rallies during the first days of the Russian invasion. 
Igor Generalov 
February. Ukraine 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky holds an urgent meeting with advisors in the hours following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
Office of the President of Ukraine 
March. Russia 
U.S. fast food chain McDonald's was among hundreds of foreign companies that decided to cease its operations and withdraw from the Russian market in response to the war. 
Sophia Sandurskaya / Moskva News Agency 
March. Russia 
Among the companies halting operations in Russia within the first few weeks of the war was Inditex, which owns Spanish fashion retailer Zara. 
Sergei Karpukhin / TASS 
March. Russia 
A law enforcement officer on Moscow's Manezhnaya Square sports the increasingly popular pro-war "Z" symbol. 
Vyacheslav Prokofyev / TASS 
March. Ukraine 
A toddler stares through the window of a train departing the western Ukrainian city of Lviv. Since the start of the war, over 7 million Ukrainians have fled to Europe, according to the United Nations. 
Felipe Dana / AP / TASS 
April. Russia 
With his hands tied behind his back with a strip of sheeting — a reference to the civilian massacre allegedly committed by Russian soldiers in the Kyiv suburb of Bucha — an artist-activist makes a brave statement in front of Moscow's Cathedral of Christ the Saviour. 
t.me/holodmedia 
April. Russia 
Vladimir Zhirinovsky, the founder and veteran leader of Russia’s far-right Liberal Democratic Party, died in a Moscow hospital on April 6 at the age of 75. 
Sergei Kiselev / Moskva News Agency 
April. Ukraine 
Residents of the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol make a fire pit on the balcony of a residential building damaged during airstrikes. 
Sergei Bobylev / TASS 
May. Russia 
Russian President Vladimir Putin attends the annual Victory Day parade on Moscow's Red Square. 
kremlin.ru 
May. Ukraine 
Residents of Mariupol charge their phones with a generator while Russian emergency personnel clear debris from the partially destroyed Mariupol Drama Theatre, which was bombed by Russian forces in March despite some 1,200 civilians sheltering inside. Ukrainian officials estimated that as many as 300 people were killed in the attack. 
AFP 
June. Russia 
Putin visits a multimedia exhibit in Moscow dedicated to the 350th anniversary of Russian monarch Peter the Great's birth. 
kremlin.ru 
June. Ukraine 
A girl rides her bike past apartment blocks that have been destroyed by shelling in the town of Borodyanka near Kyiv. 
Natacha Pisarenko / AP Photo / TASS 
July. Russia 
Muscovites watch July's supermoon rise above Russia's capital. 
Igor Ivanko / Kommersant 
July. Ukraine 
A Russian serviceman watches as barley is harvested near the occupied village of Yakymivka in southern Ukraine's Zaporizhzhia Region. 
Alexei Konovalov / TASS 
July. Russia 
Russia's second city St. Petersburg hosts celebrations for Navy Day. 
Alexander Demianchuk / TASS 
August. Ukraine 
A girl stands on the wreckage of a Russian tank on display in Kyiv in the run-up to Ukrainian Independence Day on Aug. 24. 
Dimitar Dilkoff / AFP 
August. Russia 
Moscow is blanketed by smog amid high summer temperatures and raging wildfires in neighboring regions. 
Sergei Kiselev / Moskva News Agency 
September. Russia 
Nobel Peace Prize-winning journalist Dmitry Muratov holds a portrait of Mikhail Gorbachev at the funeral of the last Soviet leader. Gorbachev passed away on Aug. 30 after a "long and serious illness" aged 91. 
Sergei Kiselev / Moskva News Agency 
September. Ukraine 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky visits the recently liberated city of Izyum in the country's Kharkiv region on Sep. 14. 
president.gov.ua 
September. Russia 
Police officers detain a man during protests following the announcement of partial mobilization in Russia. More than 2,000 people were arrested across the country during the September protests. 
Alexander Nemenov / AFP 
September. Russia 
A Russian man called up to fight in Ukraine bids farewell to his family before being sent to the frontlines. 
Sergei Kiselev / Moskva News Agency 
September. Russia 
Russians fleeing Putin's military draft wait in line at the land border with Georgia. Hundreds of thousands of Russians are believed to have left the country since the invasion of Ukraine began in February. 
Valery Sharifulin / TASS 
October. Ukraine 
Ukrainian law enforcement officials examine burnt-out cars in the capital Kyiv following Russian strikes on Oct. 10. 
Sergei Chuzavkov / AFP 
October. Russia 
October's partial solar eclipse is seen above a statue of Lenin in the city of Ryazan in western Russia. 
Alexander Ryumin / TASS 
November. Ukraine 
Pedestrians walk through an underground passageway near Kyiv's Independence Square amid countrywide blackouts as Russian missile strikes increasingly target Ukraine's power infrastructure. 
Dimitar Dilkoff / AFP 
November. Russia 
Vladimir Putin visits an open-air museum on Red Square dedicated to the anniversary of the 1941 Battle of Moscow and the October Revolution parade that was held amid the fighting. 
Sergei Bobylev / TASS / Kremlin.ru 
November. Ukraine 
Zelensky makes a surprise visit to the city of Kherson just days after it was recaptured by the Ukrainian military on Nov. 11. 
Zelenskiy / Official telegram channel 
December. Russia 
Militaristic decorations in front of Russia's Defense Ministry in Moscow ahead of the city's New Year celebrations. 
Moskva News Agency 
December. Russia 
A light installation near Moscow's VDNKh exhibition center takes the shape of the pro-war "V" symbol and is made up of St. George's ribbon — a military symbol — and the Russian flag. 
Sergei Bulkin / News.ru / TASS 
December. Ukraine 
The 12-meter tall Christmas tree on Kyiv's St. Sophia Square has been dubbed the "tree of Invincibility," and has come to represent Ukraine's endurance through the Russian invasion. 
The Eurasian Climate Brief team gets together to look back on the top climate stories from 2022 across Eastern Europe, Russia, the Caucasus and Central Asia. From to the consequences of Russia's war in Ukraine for the global energy market and climate movement, to the hopeful rise of Ukrainian climate activism and low-carbon strategies in Central Asia, join us for unique analysis of the region's trends and what they might hold in store for the year ahead. 
Russia experienced its third hottest year on record in 2023, the head of Russia's Hydrometeorological Center said at a press conference on Wednesday. 
Global temperatures last year smashed records going back to 1850, with the planet measuring 1.35-1.54 Celcius warmer on average compared to pre-industrial levels. 
While 2023 was just the third hottest ever reliably recorded for Russia overall, in the European part of the country — which includes regions west of the Ural Mountains — last year was the hottest on record, according to chief scientist Roman Vilfand. 
He did not mention exactly how much warmer on average the European part of Russia was last year. 
Vilfand said greenhouse gas emissions and El Nino — a climate pattern that warms sea surface temperatures — were major contributors to last year's hot weather. 
"What stands out is that the average global temperature [in 2023] exceeded the previous record in 2016 by 0.17 Celsius," he said. 
"This is a huge magnitude for climatologists, unexpectedly large," Vilfand added. 
Warmer temperatures are fueling more extreme weather events across Russia, which last year totaled 1,191 across the country in 2023, according to the chief scientist. 
"Very severe weather events occurred in the Primorye region in late August — there has never been such rainfall before, and Primorye was paralyzed for several days," Vilfand said. 
In October, Russia updated its climate doctrine, which acknowledges the significant, predominantly adverse” effects of climate change on the country, including heatwaves, droughts and permafrost melting. 
Some 20,000 protesters rallied in Georgia on Wednesday after lawmakers advanced a controversial "foreign influence" law that opponents say will undermine Tbilisi's longstanding European aspirations. 
In a vote boycotted by opposition deputies, 83 lawmakers from the ruling Georgian Dream party passed the first reading of the bill, which has been criticized as mirroring a repressive Russian law on "foreign agents" used to silence dissent. That was enough for it to pass the 150-seat parliament. 
In the evening, thousands of protesters blocked traffic on the main thoroughfare of the Georgian capital Tbilisi, in front of the parliament building, where hundreds of riot police were bused in. 
"No to the Russian law!" shouted demonstrators after the Georgian national anthem and European Union's Ode to Joy were performed at the rally, the third day of mass anti-government protests. 
"Today is a sad day for Georgia, because our government has taken another step towards Russia and away from Europe," said protester Makvala Naskidashvili. 
"But I am also happy because I see such unity among the youth," the 88-year-old added. "They are proud Europeans and will not let anyone spoil their European dream." 
Protesters then issued an ultimatum to the authorities, demanding the withdrawal of the draft law within an hour, before marching to the prime minister's offices to demand a meeting with the head of government, an AFP journalist saw. 
Protest rallies were also held in several cities across Georgia, including the second-largest city of Batumi, Interpress news agency reported. 
Since Monday, thousands have been taking to the streets in Tbilisi every day to protest against the draft law. 
Previous days saw riot police chase demonstrators in the labyrinth of narrow streets near parliament, beating them and making arrests. 
Several local media outlets said police had attacked their journalists. 
'Not in line with EU values' 
A former Soviet republic, Georgia has sought for years to deepen relations with the West, but the current ruling party is accused of trying to steer the Black Sea nation toward closer ties with Russia. 
Once seen as leading the democratic transformation of ex-Soviet countries, Georgia has in recent years been criticized for perceived democratic backsliding. 
Prime Minister Irakli Kobakhidze — known for anti-Western rhetoric while insisting that he is committed to Georgia's Euro-Atlantic aspirations — said the law would boost the financial transparency of NGOs funded by Western institutions. 
He then accused some of those civil groups of attempting to drag Georgia into the Ukraine war and to stage a revolution. 
"Forward, with dignity, to Europe!" he said after accusing Western leaders of opposing the law without offering arguments against it. 
But European Union foreign policy chief Josep Borrell and enlargement commissioner Oliver Varhelyi called Wednesday's vote in the Georgian parliament a "very concerning development." 
"Final adoption of this legislation would negatively impact Georgia's progress on its EU path. This law is not in line with EU core norms and values," they said in a joint statement. 
In December, the EU granted Georgia official candidate status. But it said Tbilisi would have to reform its judicial and electoral systems, reduce political polarisation, improve press freedom and curtail the power of oligarchs before membership talks could be formally launched. 
President Salome Zurabishvili — who is at loggerheads with the ruling party — said the measure contradicted "the will of the population" and denounced it as "a Russian strategy of destabilization." 
Washington has also voiced concerns that the law would "derail Georgia from its European path." 
'Repressive legislation' 
If adopted, the bill would require any independent NGO or media organization receiving more than 20% of funding from abroad to register as an "organization pursuing the interests of a foreign power." 
Amnesty International urged Georgia's authorities to "immediately stop their incessant efforts to impose repressive legislation on the country's vibrant civil society." 
A similar bill targeting "foreign agents" was dropped last year after mass protests outside the parliament building in Tbilisi, during which police used tear gas and water cannons against demonstrators. 
The ruling Georgian Dream party re-introduced the draft law to parliament earlier this month, in a surprise announcement ahead of crucial parliamentary elections in October, seen as a key democratic test for the Black Sea country. 
To become law, the bill has to pass second and third readings in parliament and to overcome a likely presidential veto. 
But Georgian Dream holds a commanding majority in the legislature, allowing it to pass further stages and vote down a presidential veto without the backing of any opposition MPs. 
Two people died and 19 others were injured on Thursday in western Russia's Belgorod region as the country faced widespread drone attacks for a third day in a row, officials said. 
Russia's Defense Ministry said 14 Ukrainian drones were destroyed in border regions overnight, the latest wave of attacks ahead of the March 15-17 presidential election, which incumbent Vladimir Putin is all but guaranteed to win. 
Belgorod region Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov wrote on social media that one woman was killed in the most recent Ukrainian air attacks on Thursday, while 19 others were injured. 
"As a result of an explosion, a car driven by a female civilian overturned into a ditch. The woman died on the spot from her injuries," Gladkov said, adding that three other people had been wounded by shrapnel. 
Earlier, he had said another person was killed and six others were wounded in a drone attack. 
The strike damaged two homes and a medical facility, he added. 
Gladkov later announced that shopping centers in Belgorod would be closed until the end of the day and urged people to delay taking any trips. 
"There have been many requests to close shopping centers. We have already done this. They are now closing," he said in a video. 
Besides the Belgorod region, in the neighboring Kursk region, another three drones were downed overnight, according to the Russian Defense Ministry. 
On Tuesday and Wednesday, dozens of Ukrainian drones were launched at regions across Russia, mostly targeting oil refineries in the Ryazan, Nizhny Novgorod and Leningrad regions, all located hundreds of kilometers from the front line in Ukraine. 
Two in five Russians who fled the country in the months following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine have since returned home, the pro-Kremlin newspaper Izvestia reported Tuesday, citing data from an immigration support company and job recruitment website. 
According to official statistics, 668,400 Russians left the country last year as war broke out in neighboring Ukraine, and then later as President Vladimir Putin announced a "partial" mobilization of reservists to boost Moscow's troop numbers on the battlefield. 
Izvestia reports that the online recruitment giant HeadHunter placed the number of returnees since then at 26%, which is based on its analysis of job seekers’ applications. 
Finion, a company that provides foreign residence permit registration services, said its survey of 2,700 clients revealed the number of returnees at 40%. 
Based on those figures, Izvestia estimated the number of returnees at between 174,000 (26%) and 334,000 (40%). 
Tougher immigration rules and unemployment are the main reasons for Russians’ return to their homeland, according to the publication’s interviews with experts. 
Other experts cited by Izvestia highlight salary increases for software engineers in Russia as another key reason for the emigres’ return. 
In October, researchers at the Florence-based European University Institute said their long-term survey of 5,000 Russian emigres in 60 countries revealed that 15% of them have returned either temporarily or permanently. 
Putin — after describing the emigres as scum and traitors” at the start of the Ukraine invasion in March 2022 — claimed this summer that half of all wartime emigres have returned to Russia. 
Other high-ranking officials, like Deputy Security Council Chairman Dmitry Medvedev and State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin, have called for harsh punishment against Russians who have fled the war. 
Three people have been killed and two injured in a fire at a machine-building plant in the southern Russian city of Voronezh, Russia’s Emergency Situations Ministry said Monday. 
Eyewitness footage shared by local social media channels showed thick black smoke coming out of a two-story industrial building and spreading to nearby streets. 
The fire engulfed around 500 square meters of the machine-building plant Enikmash, which manufactures press forges, said the state-run broadcaster Vesti Voronezh. 
Firefighters localized the blaze around 1.5 hours after being tipped off about the emergency. 
Five people have been killed in a blast at an explosives factory in Russia’s central Tambov region, state-run media reported Tuesday, citing local authorities. 
At the moment, there is information about four people killed, and two others were injured,” emergency services told the TASS news agency. 
Officials later said one of the wounded victims died from their injuries in the hospital, bringing the total death toll to five. 
Tambov Governor Maxim Yegorov said the explosion was caused by human error” and definitely not [the result of] a terrorist attack.” 
Factory workers and residents of nearby areas are not in danger,” Egorov said on the Telegram messaging app, adding that production at the factory continued as usual.” 
The Tambov plant, located in the town of Kotovsk, manufactures ammunition for the Russian military, including projectiles for artillery systems and gunpowder for small arms cartridges. 
In 2016, an explosion at the factory killed five people. 
Tuesday’s deadly blast is just one of several to have taken place at Russian explosives factories in recent months. 
In May, two workers were killed at an explosives plant in the Perm region, located 1,000 kilometers east of Moscow. 
A similar incident occurred in April at a plant in Kazan, when one worker's wrist was blown off. 
In the two years since the Kremlin invaded Ukraine, Russia has experienced a backsliding in several key areas connected to environmental protection and the fight against climate change. This not only poses risks to public health but could also undermine global efforts to address the climate crisis. 
While many of Russia’s environmental policies and related state agencies remain in place, the impact of Western sanctions and a sweeping crackdown on civil society at home have curtailed the state’s ability to protect the environment. 
Climate goals in doubt 
As one of the world’s top polluters, Russia has long been criticized for insufficient action on addressing climate change. However, Western sanctions have further hindered progress on decarbonizing projects. 
Given Russia's reliance on imported technologies, ranging from 30% to 55% across various sectors targeted for decarbonization, experts warn that under the current sanctions regime, the government will struggle to enact several key climate initiatives. 
Greenhouse gas emission cuts in Russia by the middle of the 21st century could be only half of what was initially planned before the West imposed sanctions in response to the invasion of Ukraine, according to researchers at the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
However, Moscow insists that it is still pursuing a sound climate policy, maintaining its goal of achieving net zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2060, while also trying to assert its role in the global fight against climate change at international talks. 
Earlier this week, President Vladimir Putin said that humanity must unite together in efforts to address climate change, calling the crisis a primary concern for Russia. 
Emission standards retreat 
In a bid to keep Russia’s sanctions-battered automotive industry afloat, the government temporarily allowed manufacturers to produce vehicles that meet the emission standard of ecological class 0” — which is roughly equivalent to the Euro 1 standard introduced by the EU in 1992. 
The change, implemented in May 2022, allowed car manufacturers to continue operating factories that would otherwise have been forced to shut down due to their inability to meet previously enforced Euro 5 standards without imported vehicle components. 
But the move came at a cost. The lower emission standards meant that new cars could release high levels of nitrogen oxide, which contributes to smog production and potentially causes respiratory problems for people exposed to it. 
The Russian government has since required car manufacturers to produce vehicles that meet at least the Euro 3 emission standard, a change that took effect this month. However, it remains unclear how many environmentally obsolete cars have hit Russian roads during the spell of relaxed regulations. 
Drones for forests 
Amid growing threats of Ukrainian drone attacks on Russian territory, authorities in dozens of regions had banned drone usage by late 2022. However, the implications of this ban extend beyond security concerns. 
Restrictions on drone use could hinder forest conservation efforts, a forestry expert told The Moscow Times on condition of anonymity, including the detection and prevention of illegal logging, waste disposal and wildfires, as drones are commonly used for surveillance in these areas. 
Record waste 
Russian enterprises produced a record 9 billion tons of industrial waste in the year that Moscow launched its invasion of Ukraine, according to the FinExpertiza consulting group. 
The 6.7% year-on-year increase marks the highest level of industrial waste production since data first started being collected in 2002. Experts link the waste growth to a boom in industrial production in the country’s defense sector as the Kremlin militarizes the economy to build more tanks, missiles, guns and ammo. 
Russian defense enterprises are also a significant source of water, land and air pollution, though the precise impact of the country’s military production boom on the environment remains unclear given the secrecy surrounding the sector. 
Banned eco-defenders 
Over the past year, the Kremlin effectively dismantled those groups that had been the loudest independent voices on environmental issues and had the largest public support base. 
Russia authorities labeled prominent international NGOs such as Bellona, Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund undesirable.” All had been present in the country since the Soviet collapse. This designation effectively banned them from working in Russia and made any form of cooperation with them a crime. 
While some environmental NGOs still operate in the country, including Kremlin-backed groups, the future of civil society — and its ability to independently and effectively advocate for environmental causes — remains in doubt. 
Nine people were wounded in Ukrainian strikes on the Russian border regions of Belgorod and Kursk, the respective regional governors said on Sunday. 
"Six civilians were wounded as a result of the bombardment of Shebekino town," Belgorod governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said on Telegram, adding that they had been taken to hospital. 
All six, five of whom were in two buses and the sixth who was on the street, were wounded by shrapnel. 
Shebekino is a town of 40,000 people close to the border with Ukraine, fewer than 100 kilometers (60 miles) from Kharkiv. 
Kharkiv, the second largest city in Ukraine, has been the target of a sustained push by Russian forces since early May. 
Ukraine regularly attacks Belgorod. 
Kyiv says it is targeting military sites from which Russia launches its deadly missile and drone assaults on Ukraine's energy infrastructure and towns. 
Gladkov also announced on Sunday the death of a local official in an explosion that wounded three other officials, without giving any more details. 
Meanwhile, a Ukrainian drone attack "on a car this morning" in the Kursk region "wounded three" people, who were taken to hospital, governor Alexei Smirnov said. 
VIP hunters including senior Russian officials and wealthy businessmen appear increasingly keen to target protected animals and areas across the country. 
These efforts, when combined with poor government oversight, could threaten the survival of the country’s rare species, experts told The Moscow Times. 
Since the tsarist era, hunting has been seen in Russia as an elite form of relationship building. Bringing a high-ranking official on a hunt is prestigious and beneficial,” said a Russian environmental expert who requested anonymity due to their affiliation with a group targeted by the authorities. 
One of the highest-ranking professional hunters is former Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, who has reportedly hunted in the company of President Vladimir Putin in Siberia and the Far East on several occasions. 
Trophy hunting of endangered animals also happens,” the expert said. Sometimes it's blatant — they [hunters] simply do it illegally — and sometimes semi-legally.” 
In recent years, lawmakers and officials have taken a number of steps to loosen hunting regulations. 
In March, officials in the northwestern republic of Karelia allocated a portion of land that was previously part of the Ladoga Skerries National Park as hunting grounds after its protected status was removed last year. 
Experts warn that this reallocation will prove disastrous for the national park’s ecosystem. One businessman who stands to reap benefits from it is Russian tycoon Roman Abramovich, who owns a real estate management firm in the area, according to the environmental news outlet Smola. 
In 2021, Russia passed amendments allowing protected species to be hunted in exceptional cases” including scientific purposes or to prevent disease in domestic animals. 
Activists say that this legal tweak has created a loophole for affluent hunters to kill rare species for trophies under the guise of scientific research, simply by buying off the necessary justification papers. 
The Russian Club of Mountain Hunters, a nonprofit advocating for legal trophy hunting of hoofed animals in the wild, maintains lists of trophies for which participants can earn points and advance in the club's Hunters’ Ranking. 
Besides non-protected species, these lists feature several named in Russia’s Red Book of threatened species such as the snow sheep, Altai argali and wild goat. 
State Duma deputy Vladislav Reznik, who co-authored the amendments permitting the hunting of Red Book animals, currently tops the club’s Hunters’ Ranking. 
Along with its leader, former FSB special forces operative Eduard Bendersky, the club counts former presidential aide and ex-minister Sergei Yastrzhembsky, current Russian deputies and prominent businessmen among its members. 
The Russian Club of Mountain Hunters did not respond to The Moscow Times’ request for comment. 
Controversial pastime 
Despite being legal in many countries, trophy hunting is a divisive practice, with its critics questioning the morality of killing animals for recreation and arguing that it harms conservation efforts. 
Hunters maintain that their hobby helps balance ecosystems and that hunting fees and duties can help fund nature conservation. 
Ex-minister Yastrzhembsky voiced similar sentiments, arguing that wildlife conservation and trophy hunting must go hand in hand.” 
This is exactly what our radicals don't understand,” Yastrzhembsky said in 2021, referring to these groups with a Russian-language portmanteau of zoo” and schizophrenic.” 
Wildlife cannot be fetishized, treated as some deity to be worshiped while ignoring the problems that arise with a lack of regulation of the excess population of predators — wolves or bears. After all, this is a threat to human life," he continued. 
Beyond the ethical concerns, environmentalists warn that trophy hunting is not as sustainable as its proponents say. 
Even when it complies with the law, trophy hunting can still harm biodiversity by eliminating the largest animals, which risks depopulating certain species, said Mikhail Yurchenko, an expert from the International Socio-Ecological Union NGO. 
"Any hunting disrupts the balance in the ecosystem and pollutes the surrounding environment with hunting ammunition. The noise of gunfire also harms animals, especially during the spring hunting season,” Yurchenko told The Moscow Times. 
As an additional stressor for wildlife, hunting can lead to unpredictable consequences when combined with other factors, the anonymous environmental expert said. 
In Russia’s Far East, Siberian tigers are increasingly encroaching into villages, killing humans or snatching dogs due to a lack of prey in the forests. 
At first, wild boars were the tigers’ main hunting target,” the expert explained. Then there was an outbreak of African swine fever, which, along with hunting, significantly reduced the main wild boar population.” 
The tigers started to switch to other prey such as Manchurian elk, roe deer and sika deer — but they were scarce, as hunters had already taken them down.” 
Experts say decades of forest clearance in the area has further exacerbated the tigers’ lack of food sources. 
Russia’s wildlife management is plagued by poor governmental oversight, unreliable data on population numbers of species permitted to be hunted and a shortage of hunting inspectors, the expert said. 
I know of certain situations where a wealthy individual takes a huge chunk of forest for themselves as a hunting ground. It's just a thrill for them. And maybe once a year, they'll come there with friends to shoot some wild boar,” they said. 
On the other hand, some completely exploit it, shoot everything there and then go bankrupt. Unfortunately, this is not regulated at all. It should be monitored by game inspectors, of which there are very few.” 
Yet others, echoing officials’ anti-Western rhetoric, have pointed the finger at the West for the threats to Russia’s wildlife. 
Foreign visits decline 
Amid the wider anti-Western sentiment in Russia, some media outlets and Telegram channels have recently slammed Russian firms that organize hunting trips for foreigners. 
While the people of Russia firmly resist various unlawful sanctions imposed by unfriendly states, citizens of these very countries continue to destroy Russian wildlife. They ‘take the beast’ and effortlessly obtain permits to export trophies beyond Russia’s borders,” the Zelyony Zmiy (Green Snake) environmental Telegram channel said this year. 
A pressing question is if Russia needs to provide this sort of ‘service shooting range’ for the collective West in the current geopolitical climate,” it continued. 
Several factors make Russia a destination for foreigners interested in trophy hunting, Sergei Shushunov from the U.S.-based Russian Hunting Agency, which organizes hunting, fishing and adventure tours to Russia, told The Moscow Times. 
The country boasts lower prices for hunting some species compared to the U.S. and Canada and the opportunity to secure trophies in the wild rather than on game farms, Shushunov said. 
Russia is also home to exotic species such as the Asiatic black bear, Caucasian chamois, snow sheep and Siberian ibex, as well as capercaillie and ducks that can be taken when they are in prime plumage, unlike elsewhere in the Northern Hemisphere. 
Finally, foreign hunters may have greater success rates in Russia because its lands are not as overhunted as those of other countries and the guides’ compensation depends on the number of trophies taken, Shushunov said. 
However, the Covid-19 pandemic and the 2022 invasion of Ukraine have reduced visits by foreign hunters, three hunting tour organizers told The Moscow Times. 
Estimates suggest that about 600-700 foreign hunters traveled to Russia in 2021, down from over 2,000 per year in the early 2000s. 
Before Covid, we had prepayments for tours booked three to four years in advance. [Since 2022] we have faced complete cancellations of tours. There are still some clients … but I think they will also postpone their trips," said Anatoly Turushev, general director of Kamchatka Trophy Hunts. 
We are refusing to make arrangements until the war is over, but many still want to come. The traffic is down 90%,” said a representative of a U.S.-based firm that organized hunting trips to Russia from 1985 until 2022. They spoke on condition of anonymity to avoid putting Russia-based staff at risk by discussing the war's impacts on their business. 
The U.S.-based firm’s representative said it was nonsense” to say that foreign trophy hunters should be concerned by Russia’s poor governmental oversight of wildlife. 
Wildlife in Russia is well managed and the resource is so vast that the relatively small number of hunters does not affect the population of most game species in a significant way,” they said. 
Poaching is a bigger problem, but of marginal effect, due to the size of your country [Russia] and the relatively small population. Wealthy Russians take advantage of everything, as you already know.” 
Given the reduced numbers of foreign hunters, domestic hunters, especially poachers or those with powerful lobbying capacities, appear more likely to pose a risk to Russia’s rare species — despite what anti-Western voices say. 
Trophy hunting, whether domestic or foreign, poses a threat to biodiversity, especially when combined with rampant poaching and inadequate protection — as is the case in many areas [in Russia],” the anonymous Russian environmental expert said. 
Authorities tend to react only when catastrophic consequences begin to unfold.” 
Since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, Russian civil society has faced increasing repression at home. The environmental movement is no exception. While they kept communication channels open before the war, feeding the outside world precious data on the state of Russia's forests, permafrost and Arctic, large mainstream NGOs such as WWF, Greenpeace and Bellona have all been declared undesirable organizations in recent months. This makes their national-level work next to impossible. Angelina Davydova and Boris Schneider spoke to Vitaly Servetnik, a campaigner at Russia's Friends of the Earth and the Russian Socio-Ecological Union, about the situation, as wildfires continue to engulf eastern Siberia. Unflappable, Servetnik maintains that environmentalists within the country are as defiant and creative as ever. 
The other day someone asked me if I’d ever written about the language of bribe-giving. I haven’t. In fact, I don’t think I ever offered a bribe, although in the days before Moscow installed about a million predatory street cameras that fine you online, гаишники (traffic cops, aka the hounds of hell) sometimes demanded them from me. Since their trick was to take your passport and license and refuse to give them back until you paid your fine,” I paid. Once it was for a supposedly illegal painted bumper, a violation” so ludicrous that even the cop’s partner snorted with laughter. 
As it turns out, you don’t have to look far for bribe-talk. Everything you want to know about bribes, including slang expressions, can be found on the Moscow Government web site. The section welcomes readers with a warm opening sentence: Есть такая старая русская традиция — взятка (There is an old Russian tradition — the bribe). 
The person giving the bribe is взяткодатель (bribe-giver) and the person taking it is взяткополучатель or, more commonly, взяточник (bribe-taker). According to studies — perhaps conducted by potential bribe-givers: Взяточник — это чаще всего мужчина в возрасте от 25 до 40 лет, с высшим образованием, состоящий в браке и имеющий детей на иждивении (A bribe-taker is typically a man aged 25 to 40, with a higher education, married with dependent children). 
When you give this guy a bribe, you are not likely to say: На — возьми взятку (Here’s a bribe; take it). Instead you might say you are giving him something to express gratitude (выражать благодарность). To your friend you might say you had to buy someone off (откупаться). Or you might use the slangy давать на лапу (literally to put something in his paw). 
I asked some of my Russian friends to think back to their bribing days, and we came up with three situations in the Soviet and immediate post-Soviet period where you were likely to give a bribe. 
The first category was the communal services guys. This was local слесарь Вася (plumber Vasya) who, like all plumbers, was always drunk — this apparently was a job qualification. That did not stop him from doing excellent work, although it did make it hard to reach him sometimes. 
These folks got a salary, but it wasn’t what you’d call generous. Many of these people came to Moscow from other towns по лимиту (as migrant workers), lived in horrible conditions, waited for a Moscow прописка (residence permit) and eventually housing. So Вася needed to make as much money on the side — in part to pay bribes in various offices to speed up his residency permit. To make sure your toilet got fixed within the millennium, you might say, Конечно, я вас поблагодарю (Of course I’ll thank you). But sometimes you just cut to the chase and asked: Сколько? (How much?) 
Doctors, teachers, secretaries, and gatekeepers (to officials, important bosses, or service providers) also got bribes. A doctor friend got what he called джентельменский набор: коньяк, конфетки, блок (иностранных) сигарет (a gentleman’s assortment: cognac, a box of candy and a carton of (foreign) cigarettes). A different friend wanted to bribe her teacher for a good grade. She slipped cash in the folder with her essay and said: Работу я сделала… может быть, договоримся? (I did the work… can we come to an agreement?) 
A specialist in bribe-giving suggests first deciding how much you are willing to pay. Прикиньте какой суммы достаточно для того, чтобы этот человек соблазнился (Estimate what amount would be enough to seduce the person you’re bribing). Умножьте на два (Double the figure). 
Then there are possible approaches. What you say depends on the situation. For the first category of someone you want something from — like the plumber or teacher — you’ve established there is a problem – a broken toilet, a possible bad grade – and are now presenting a range of possible solutions. That come in an envelope. Or large bag. Or suitcase. 
Как решить вопрос? (How can we resolve this?) Может быть, мы поищем какой-нибудь вариант решения проблемы? (Maybe we can look for another way to resolve the problem?) Давайте посмотрим на вопрос с другой стороны! (Let’s look at this issue from another angle!) Or even: У меня к вам рационализаторское предложение! (I’ve got a labor-saving proposal for you!) 
It’s not clear whose labor is being saved, but you get your idea across. 
If it’s a traffic cop or anyone in authority about to fine, charge, arrest or otherwise make your life miserable, then the question is slightly different. Договориться можно? (Can we make a deal?) 
What if the cop, investigator, prosecutor, or other person in authority responds with outrage? You have two options. One is to play innocent: Да что вы, что вы! Я совсем не это имел в виду (Good grief! How could you say that?! I didn’t mean that at all!) The other is to realize that you low-balled your offer and try again: Что я для вас могу сделать? (What can I do for you?) 
And then there a third category that is, frankly, way above my pay grade. This is big business, heads of construction boards, lawmakers considering legislation that could either break you or make you, and other top-level officials with the power to nix or okay your billion-dollar deal. I have been told that words are usually not uttered. In some cases a number is written on a scrap of paper and passed across a desk or, more likely, across a crisp white tablecloth in an expensive restaurant. Or the terms were clarified by minions at an earlier date and the only reference to an expected large transfer of funds from one off-shore account into another might be: Условия знаете? (You know the terms?) 
But that’s out of my league. I’m still angry about the $50 I paid for my painted bumper. 
Блат: crimes (in prison and among criminals); connections (outside prison by everyone else) 
Alexei Navalny got in trouble in prison again, this time for saying two words: крыша (roof) and хата (hut or peasant house). So what is the problem with those two words? He was told that they входят в сборник жаргонных слов и выражений, употребляемых преступными элементами” (They are listed in an anthology of slang words and expressions used by criminal elements). 
I thought Navalny might have gotten in trouble for laughing at the phrase преступные элементы, but no; it was more absurd. In prison it is forbidden to use slang words and expressions used by criminal elements. Weird — I mean, they’re in a prison, what kind of language do they think the criminal elements imprisoned there would use? 
But it gets even weirder. When Navalny asked to see the list so he would not err again, his request was refused. The anthology was sent to prison in 1983 and с тех пор остаётся засекреченным” (and ever since then has been classified). 
That is, you can be punished for uttering forbidden words and phrases, but the list of forbidden words and phrases is held in secret. (Scratches head.) 
The real problem is that these words and expressions migrate back and forth between the criminal world and the non-criminal world. That is, regular words enter criminal slang and acquire new nefarious meanings. And criminal slang enters the general, non-criminal language and becomes a part of it, sometimes keeping its original meaning, sometimes being tamed over time or changing entirely. 
Take, for example the benign, even lofty word музыка (music). It is a perfectly acceptable word used by everyone from your teenage neighbor to your priest and even your snobby Тётя Роза (Auntie Rose). But it went over to the Dark Side when no one was looking. It also means criminal language.” It is just one of the words used to describe how crooks and dirty dealers talk: арго (argot); жаргон (jargon); байковый язык (the language of tall tales); феня, блатная феня, соня (all versions of thieves’ cant”), рыбий язык (language of fishes); and музыка (music). It is sometimes called блатная музыка —блатная means criminal. 
Today this slang is probably most commonly called феня, a word derived from офеня (traveling peddler, itinerant bookseller). To speak it is по фене ботать, as in: Где по фене ботать учился? (Where’d you learn prison slang?) 
Navalny got in trouble for uttering normal” words that also have criminal” meanings: крыша is a protection racket and хата has a number of meanings, including a criminal hang-out and a prison cell. 
Another everyday word that took a dark turn among crooks is the word мусор (garbage) — you hear it every day when your significant other asks "Ты уже вынес мусор?" (Did you take out the trash?) But in феня it means a cop. 
Стук out here in the world is the sound of knocking, tapping, pounding or pitter-pattering, and стучать is the verb for it. Мне нравится стук дождя по крыше (I love the sound of rain pattering on the roof). Если никто не открывает, стучите сразу в несколько дверей (If no one answers, just go and knock on several doors). But in prison slang стук is a denunciation and стучать means to denounce.” Твой напарник сейчас стучит на тебя в участке (Your partner is in the police station snitching on you as we speak). 
Хвост is what your dog wags when she’s happy to see you. In феня it is most commonly a guy who is following you: Если вы заметили слежку за собой, ни в коем случае нельзя оборачиваться, а, наоборот, стоит ввести хвост в заблуждение (If you notice that you’re being following, do not under any circumstances turn around, but to the contrary, you should try to confuse the guy tailing you). 
In the non-criminal world, стирка is what you do to keep your clothes clean: С давних времён стирка была очень трудоёмким процессом (In the old days, doing the laundry was a very labor-intensive process). But in the criminal and prison worlds, it can mean a scam or a rag, and in the plural (стирки) it can mean a deck of cards. 
Probably 90% of the words in феня have not been invented by criminals: they are ordinary Russian words that are given a new meaning. So every time Alexei Navalny or another prisoner opens their mouth, they are likely to violate the secret code. 
But the process of word assimilation went the other direction, too. Out here in the so-called free world, it’s useful to know which words came out of the prisons with the prisoners. This is difficult since crooks used their slang with folks outside their crowd and cops-and-robbers television shows use феня for authenticity.” So you might be using criminal slang — or a later version of it — without knowing it. 
I learned this lesson the hard way when I used the word мудак within the hearing of an older, well-educated and well-spoken woman. It’s a rough word that means an idiot, a louse, a creep. But she knew it as a word from the gulag that meant a simpleton or a naïve person who’d never been inside” and gave me a good talking-to about my language acquisition. 
But it is hard to know word origins. Take the word понт, once used among criminals to mean showing off to rise up in the ranks. Now it’s almost the standard word for bravado, acting like a bigshot. Брать/взять на понт is to convince people that you’re great by sheer aplomb: Главное взять на понт (It’s all about attitude). Выглядит как дешёвые понты (Looks like cheap showing-off). 
Косить in the camps meant pretending to be sick to avoid work. This handy word came out with the released prisoners and now has two meanings. The first is close to the criminal original: to avoid some kind of work or job. Classically, this is the verb for staying out of the army: Получается, что косить от армии станет дешевле (It looks like draft dodging will get cheaper). But it can also mean to pretend to be someone or something, which might be how you dodge the draft: Правда, ему пришлось пять лет косить под сумасшедшего (To be fair, though, he had to pretend to be crazy for five years.) 
Here’s another example: тусовка was a criminal gang. Today in regular language” it’s any group of people, which, when you’re young, is a very big deal: Не моя тусовка, если честно. (It’s not my crowd, to be honest). No wonder: Просто скучная тусовка с кучкой болтливых интеллектуалов (It’s just a boring crowd with a bunch of intellectuals running on at the mouth). 
The moral of this very sad story? Speaking your mind in or out of prison is a dangerous activity when the crooks and cops speak the same language. 
A Chinese-American animal rights activist has been jailed for walking a young cow near the Kremlin, state media reported Wednesday. 
Alisa Day, 34, told the state-run TASS news agency she had bought the calf online so it wouldn’t be eaten.” 
Police detained her as she walked with the animal, reportedly chanting "Animals are not food," on Red Square. 
She was sentenced to 13 days of arrest on charges of disobeying police orders and fined 20,000 rubles ($286), while the calf was sent to an animal rehabilitation center. 
I just wanted to show the cow her country, her capital. In fact, I enjoy walking farm animals because people sometimes tell me that they start eating less meat when they meet my animals. But now I just wanted to spend time with her,” she told the Izvestia daily on Wednesday. 
Day describes herself as a Chinese national who’s been living long-term in Russia” on the Russian social network VKontakte. 
Her profile contains photos of herself with a black sheep in various public settings, including a square, a train and a building lobby. 
In 2021, Ukrainian media reported that Day was spotted walking a calf and a pig in the east-central city of Dnipro. 
I wanted to save [the animals] because people eat [them],” Day said in Russian in a video interview at the time. 
Day was also profiled by British media in 2019 for rescuing another pig from slaughter in London, where she had taken it on walks to restaurants, trains and parks. 
Some people told me point blank they are becoming vegetarians after meeting my pig,” the Daily Mail quoted Day, a native of New York, as saying at the time. 
However, she subsequently faced a backlash for keeping the animal in her small apartment and was forced to surrender it to the Royal Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA). 
Всё-таки: nevertheless, in the end, all the same, really, finally... 
Little words, little words… It is my life’s work — or at least my summer challenge — to sort out some confusion experienced by readers and translators when one word has dozens of meanings and almost an endless number of possible translations. 
This is particularly true with a word like таки, which is a particle. A particle isn’t just something small — although most Russian particles are quite small — it’s a word that (almost) has no meaning of its own and cannot stand alone (with very few exceptions). It is added to other words to create new emotional or semantic shades of meaning. 
That may sound complicated, but you know and use them all the time. For example, the particle ли, which is used to form a question or indicate that something is not certain: Знаете ли вы художника Татлина? (Do you know the artist Tatlin?) Пока неизвестно, будет ли конкурс ежегодным (Right now it’s not clear whether the contest will be annual or not). Просьба сообщить, был ли доклад утверждён правительством (We request that you inform us if the paper has been approved by the government). 
Or the particle бы (sometimes just б), which indicates something hypothetical or conditional. This is the would-have-could-have particle: Был бы телефон, я бы позвонила (If I’d had a phone I would have called). Or the I’d like” particle: Хотелось бы большей поддержки властей (I’d like more support from the government). And the polite don’t want” particle: Мне не хотелось бы занимать ваше время (I don’t want to waste your time). 
Dictionaries tell you that the particle таки is tacked on to words to indicate some kind of intensification, and that it is a loose synonym of the phrases всё же (after all, be that as it may); однако же (nevertheless, and yet); тем не менее (all the same) — so it can be more of the same, the same but more intensely, or something different. 
Have I mentioned how slippery these little words are? Just when you’re about to clamp down on one, it slithers away. 
The таки phrase you are probably most familiar with is всё-таки, which can be translated in many different ways depending on the context. 
Для ребёнка всё-таки это сильный стресс (This is really very stressful for a child). 
Шумно? Неудивительно — столица всё-таки (It’s noisy? That’s no surprise. What did you expect? It’s the capital!) 
Большинство здесь уже закончили школу, а некоторые уже и университет. Где всё-таки лучше? (Most of you here have already graduated from school and some have already graduated from a university. So come on, now: Which was better?) 
Услышав моё предположение, дедушка засмеялся, но я всё-таки попросил его быть настороже (When he heard my suggestion my grandfather laughed, but all the same I still asked him to be on the lookout). 
Многие могут задаться вопросом, как же всё-таки удавалось ему так ускользать? (Many people might ask how on earth he managed to slip away.) 
Хорошо, что всё-таки не потратил денег — фильм того совершенно не стоил (It’s good that in the end you didn’t spend any money, since the film wasn’t worth it). 
Я ещё подумала: ну его к чёрту, пусть звонит, не до него, но в последний момент, на каком-то десятом гудке всё-таки взяла трубку (I thought: the hell with him, let him call, I don’t have time for him, but at the last minute, on about the tenth ring, I broke down and grabbed the phone after all). 
Некоторые сомнения всё-таки закрадывались в мою голову (Some doubts still lingered in the back of my mind). 
Now that your head is bursting with всё-таки examples, I will further complicate matters. Таки can be attached to other words, also more or less acting as a kind of intensifier. It is hyphenated to the word it is added to when that word is an adverb, verb, or another particle (not very common). Here are some adverb combos: 
Конечно, опять-таки, здесь речь идёт о незаключённом договоре (Of course, here again, we’re talking about an unsigned agreement). 
Премьер Черномырдин, обидевшись на выступление "Известий", просто-таки развалил эту газету (Prime Minister Chernomyrdin, who had been offended by a statement in Izvestiya, just up and destroyed the newspaper). 
And some verb combos: 
Я только вчера решил сесть и разобраться-таки как решаются эти грёбаные задачи (Just yesterday I decided to sit down and finally figure out how to solve those damn problems). 
Говорят, что он показал-таки эти цифры президенту (They say that he finally did show the president those figures). 
Уже и ждать перестал, но поздно вечером пришёл-таки Егор (I had already stopped waiting, but late in the evening Yegor finally did come over). 
But — there’s always a but — таки is not hyphenated when it is added to” and intensifying a noun. 
Точно, засуха таки была долгой (Yes, that’s it. The drought really did go on for a long time). 
Испытав много трудностей, она таки научилась водить машину (She had a really hard time, but in the end she somehow managed to learn how to drive). 
And it is sometimes handy for describing the peculiarities of other languages: 
Оказалось, что если сказать просто и буквально "друг показал мне фотографии", это по-японски будет означать, что "я не слишком-то хотел их смотреть, но друг таки их показал” (It turns out that if you simply and literally say my friend showed me photographs” in Japanese that would mean I didn’t really want to look at them, but my friend insisted on showing them to me anyway”). 
I’ll stick with one problematic language at a time, thank you very much. 
The basis of the Russian diet historically has always been porridge. Even today porridges made with a variety of grains remain a simple and uncomplicated meal for Russians. But here's the paradox. This simple porridge became a dish that was synonymous with one of the most elegant and intricate Russian dishes ever invented. You've probably guessed it by now. We are talking about Guryev porridge. 
Over the centuries recipes have been attributed to historical figures without any basis. But in this case, there is abundant evidence that Dmitry Guryev did indeed bring this amazing dish into our everyday life. 
So who was this man who invented Guryev porridge? He was certainly not a chef looking for glory in the kitchen. Dmitry Alexandrovich Guryev was a Count and Minister of Finance. His marriage to Countess Saltykova brought him into the circle of aristocracy. He became a member of the entourage of the young Emperor Alexander I. In 1802 he was appointed aide to Count Vasilyev, Minister of Finance. After Vasilyev’s death, Guryev became Minister. 
Russian memoirist Philip Vigel writes that Guryev "traveled abroad for a reason — he gained mastery in all things gastronomic there. He really had an inventive genius in this area, and it seems that patés, meat patties, and even a porridge bear his name." 
As we can see, even by the beginning of the 19th century Guryev's inventiveness in the kitchen was very well known. And so we can say with certainty that he created his famous porridge well before then. That is, the often-touted version that the porridge was "invented in honor of the victory over Napoleon" "by a serf cook named Zakhar Kuzmin," does not look convincing. 
This version only comes from one source: a note by Prince Andrei Golitsyn in the journal "Historical Herald" published in 1900 under the title "A Historical Note About Guryev Porridge." 
Golitsyn begins by citing the purchase deed of March 4, 1822 testifying that a retired major of the Orenburg dragoon regiment named Yurasovsky sold Count Dmitry Guryev a serf peasant family: Zakhar Kuzmin, 53 years old, and his wife. 
Then Golitsyn writes that "the said Kuzmin was a great master of his trade. The Minister of Finance, Count Guryev, who once dined at Yurasovsky's... was positively delighted by some delicious porridge prepared by Kuzmich. Not being able to contain his delight, the Minister rushed to kiss the cook who had been able to delight a man so jaded gastronomically.” 
Guryev entreated Yurovsky to sell him Kuzmin. At first Yurasovsky refused. But then, in order to get rid of the Count, he said he’d sell Kuzmin under three conditions that he thought were impossible to meet. First, Kuzmin had to agree; second, Guryev had to buy his entire family; and third, the price was the astronomical sum of 300 grams of gold. But, as Golitsyn writes, "what is impossible for an ordinary mortal turned out to be a trifle for the Minister of Finance." The cook had a new master. 
But it is unlikely that Guryev porridge was the cook’s crowning culinary achievement. In 1822 when Guryev bought Kuzmin, Guryev was 71 years old, which is definitely very old for gastronomic endeavors. A year later the tsar released him from service due to his poor health and old age. Two years later, in 1824, he passed away and was buried with full honors in St. Petersburg. Does it seem likely that Guryev had the strength at his age to "propagandize" Guryev porridge in high society? It's clear that the porridge was known long before Kuzmin joined Guryev’s household. That, however, does not diminish the culinary talents of the serf cook. 
None of this is to diminish the dessert: Guryev porridge is a great achievement of Russian cuisine. It is an example of dishes made to please Gargantua” — Rabelais’ giant king who had enormous capacity for consuming food and drink. That is, it is a kind of deliberate exaggeration of all the qualities of Russian sweets. The dish has sugar, condensed cream, nuts and baked dried fruits. It’s a gourmet's dream. It should be said that there is no canonical recipe for Guryev porridge. It seems that the dish itself is a kind of symbol of immoderate eating, which each chef understood in his or her own way. 
You can think of this dish any way you like — as a kind of hyperbole-dessert invented in Russian cuisine in the 19th century, or as the logical continuation of the "porridge tradition" that characterized Russian cuisine. In one sense Guryev porridge is the embodiment of the simple human aspiration to create something beautiful — even if here the aspiration stretched far beyond the everyday. 
There is another story about this dish that captures Russian audacity and extravagance. Not surprisingly, the story took place where Russian restaurants and Russian merchants came together. Both had wild imaginations. 
In pre-revolutionary Russia, the Nizhny Novgorod Fair was not only the center of trade — it was also the center of revelry for the merchant class. And so it is no wonder when the "Petersburg Newspaper" (№ 219 for 1895) related this very entertaining tale: 
"Highly respected representatives of the Russian merchant class, undoubtedly wanting to have a bit of fun during their stay, came up with all kinds of escapades that then became the stuff of legend. They told the story of a wine punch that cost a thousand rubles. And now they tell the story of diamonds earrings of great value that were presented in… what do you think they were presented in? You will never guess — they were served in Guryev porridge!” 
"A grand merchant took a fancy to a singer. He tried everything to win her favor. The singer sits in a private dining room of a restaurant, listens to words of love, drinks champagne by the glass if not the carafe, but refuses with great disdain to accept any gifts. And she won’t even hear of love and all the rest.” 
But the merchant did not despair. He came up with the idea of making Guryev porridge not with French fruit, but with diamonds from the dealer Khlebnikov… A large group sat around the table in a private dining room of the restaurant. As usual, the singer sat next to the host. Guryev porridge is served. The singer puts in her spoon — and she stops, puzzled. Her spoon hit something hard. In a minute the layer of porridge fell off the spoon and revealed a jewel case. Inside were the extravagant earrings.” 
The tale doesn’t reveal the result of this offering. All we know is that singer wore the earrings and the merchant had a very satisfied smile. 
We make Guryev porridge from the recipe of Pelageya Alexandrova-Ignatieva, one of the greats of Russian cuisine. In 1899 she published "Practical Basics of Culinary Art," which is still an important manual for cooks today. 
Guryev Porridge 
The main difficulty making Guryev porridge is preparing the cream foam. The cream is put in the oven until a darkened foam appears on the surface. This froth is removed with a slotted spoon and the cream is put back in the oven to produce more foam, which is skimmed off. This is done many times. For this to happen the cream must be fresh — not regular store-bought cream, but farm-fresh cream straight out of a separator. The milk should also be farm fresh. For this recipe you may use ordinary (10-18% fat content) cream or whipping cream (about 36% fat content). 
Fruit macedoine” is a kind of fruit compote: fruit that has been diced and boiled in syrup. It can be any kind of fruit — apples, plums, strawberries, cherries. 
Pelageya Alexandrova-Ignatieva offers two ways to serve Guryev pudding — hot or cold. If cold, it is served as a dessert instead of ice cream. 
150 g (3/4 c) sugar (50 g [4 Tbsp] — for porridge, 100 g [8 Tbsp] for caramelizing nuts) 
Juice of 1/2 lemon 
pinch of salt 
Instructions 
Prepare the semolina porridge. Bring the milk to a boil and add the semolina while stirring with a spoon. Let it come to a boil a few times to thicken the porridge and thoroughly cook the semolina (the grains should fall apart). Add butter — 50 g (3 ½ Tbsp) or to taste — sugar, a pinch of salt, and a vanilla pod cut in half. Stir, then cover the pan tightly with a lid, put in a pan of hot water and then put both pans into the oven at medium heat for 30 minutes. 
While the porridge is in the oven, prepare the foam as follows: pour cream into a wide saucepan, put it in the oven at medium heat or (preferably) put it in a Russian stove. As soon as the cream begins to produce a slightly dark foam on the surface, remove the foam carefully with a slotted spoon and reserve. Put the cream back in the oven until the cream again becomes frothy; skim the foam and reserve. Do this until the cream stops frothing. There will only be a thick sediment on the bottom of the saucepan. Remove the vanilla pod and add the sediment to the porridge. 
Prepare the walnuts: Pour boiling water over the nuts, cover with a lid and let stand for 10-15 minutes. Shuck the skins and dry the nuts in a pan on the stove. 
Grease a flat plate with olive oil. 
Prepare the caramel. Pour 100 grams of sugar into a small saucepan, pour in the lemon juice and place on medium heat. Stir the sugar constantly with a spatula until it turns into caramel — a dark red syrup. 
Put the nuts into the caramel and stir quickly with a fork. Quickly transfer the caramelized nuts from the sauté pan to the greased plate and cool. 
Butter the heat-proof bowl in which the Guryev porridge will be served. Cover the bottom of the bowl with a layer of porridge, then a layer of foam, then a light layer of caramelized nuts, broken into pieces, then the mixed fruit. Repeat the layering, ending with porridge on top. 
Sprinkle the top layer with sugar and use a kitchen burner to caramelize the sugar. 
Garnish the top of the porridge with a few remaining nuts and pieces of fruit. Serve hot. 
You can serve hot berry or fruit syrup separately with the porridge. 
Tech giant Apple announced Tuesday a halt in all product sales in Russia, the latest fallout over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine. 
Western governments, sporting organizations and big companies have cut Russia off or dealt it punishing sanctions over the internationally condemned attack on its neighbor. 
"We have paused all product sales in Russia. Last week, we stopped all exports into our sales channel in the country," said an Apple statement. 
The iPhone maker also announced Apple Pay and other services have been limited, while Russian state-owned media RT and Sputnik news apps were no longer available for download outside Russia. 
"We are deeply concerned about the Russian invasion of Ukraine and stand with all of the people who are suffering as a result of the violence," the statement said. 
"We are supporting humanitarian efforts, providing aid for the unfolding refugee crisis," it added. 
Ukraine's defiant government, which has urged its people to battle Russian forces, has asked for help from all quarters, including Apple's CEO Tim Cook. 
"I appeal to you... to stop supplying Apple services and products to the Russian Federation, including blocking access to the Apple Store!" Ukraine's digital minister Mykhailo Fedorov wrote in a letter he posted to Twitter Friday. 
Tech platforms pulled into conflict 
Apple also said that it has disabled both traffic and "live incidents" in Apple Maps in Ukraine as a safety measure for Ukrainian citizens. 
"We will continue to evaluate the situation and are in communication with relevant governments on the actions we are taking. We join all those around the world who are calling for peace," the Apple statement said. 
The announcement came just as the European Union banned Russian RT and Sputnik from broadcasting in the bloc while banning "certain" Russian banks from the SWIFT bank messaging system. 
Tech firms from Facebook to TikTok and Microsoft had already moved to curb the reach of Russian state-linked news outlets, which stand accused of pushing misinformation about Moscow's invasion of Ukraine. 
Social media platforms have become one of the fronts in the attack, home to sometimes false narratives but also real-time monitoring of a conflict that marks Europe's biggest geopolitical crisis in decades. 
Facebook's parent Meta said Monday it would be restricting access in the European Union to RT and Sputnik. 
Video sharing app TikTok told AFP it had restricted Russian state-owned media access on its platform in the EU, while Microsoft said it was removing RT from its app store and would change its search engine Bing's algorithm to shift RT and Sputnik content to lower in results. 
Twitter and Facebook have both been hit with access restrictions in Russia since the invasion of Ukraine and are now "largely unusable," said web monitoring group NetBlocks. 
In April, reports emerged that Russia had opened criminal cases against two prominent Russian feminist activists – Daria Serenko, one of the founders of Feminist Anti-War Resistance, and Zalina Marshenkulova, who also openly opposed the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 
Though both women now live abroad, they were added to Russia’s federal wanted list. Join us to explore the influence of Russia’s feminist movement, and whether women’s rights activists are the next target of the Kremlin’s repressions. 
Feminist activist Zalina Marshenkulova joins us to discuss the Kremlin’s increasing pressure on women’s rights campaigners, the feminist movement’s influence, and her addition to Russia’s federal wanted list. 
Russia on the Record is a podcast where Moscow Times journalists, independent experts and ordinary Russians reflect, analyze and explain what’s going on in Russia right now. 
Russian police on Saturday detained at least four people, including reporters, at a weekly protest outside the Kremlin by the wives of mobilized soldiers fighting in Ukraine. 
The wives of mobilized soldiers have staged rare protests in Moscow demanding their spouses be brought home from Ukraine. 
A video published by SOTA, an independent media outlet, showed police detaining two people wearing yellow vests with "Press" written on them and two others. 
Earlier this month, police detained a group of around 20 reporters at the same protest, warning media outlets – including AFP – against covering the demonstrations. 
Saturday's arrests came on the second anniversary of the launch of Moscow's Ukraine offensive. 
One of the women's organizations – Put Domoy (The Way Home) – had made calls on social media for protests at noon in Russian cities. 
The SOTA video showed a woman wearing a yellow "Press" vest saying: "Why are you detaining me?" 
It also showed a man carrying flowers being taken away by police. 
The women have symbolically brought red flowers to the tomb of the unknown soldier outside the Kremlin every Saturday. 
"In our times even laying flowers is expressing a civic position that carries certain risks," one of the women taking part in the protest, Nadezhda, told SOTA. 
Authorities have mainly detained journalists as well as men at the protests, stopping short of arresting protesting women. 
Amsterdam’s bustling Red Light District has plenty to offer to visitors on a Saturday evening, but a showcase of art and music of Russia’s indigenous non-Slavic communities might just have been the most unique event that took place there last weekend. 
Held at a local Walloon Church and organized by Netherlands-based anti-war collective Free Russia NL, a charity event called [Mirrors]: Reflections of the Unseen attracted dozens of locals and members of the Russian diaspora. They came looking to learn more about Russia’s ethnic and cultural diversity and support victims of Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine. 
I think many people in the West don’t necessarily see Russia as an empire…And I would like to make them question this,” said Lana Pylaeva, an ethnic Komi activist and board member of Free Russia NL. 
We want to say to Westerners: ‘Yes, we are Russians, but not ethnically. We exist. And we are against this war,” Pylaeva told The Moscow Times. 
At the core of the journey across Russia’s ethnic republics was the display of prints by indigenous illustrators from Buryatia, Kalmykia, Khakassia, Sakha (Yakutia) and Tuva. 
All the works on display were united by the artists’ shared heritage of shamanism, Turko-Mongolic folklore and myth-making and — in some cases — elements of Buddhism. But these creations also tell a common tale of the trauma inflicted by Russia’s colonial policies — policies that have facilitated cultural and linguistic erasure among non-Slavic ethnic groups living within its borders. 
This trauma is also reflected in the event’s title, [Mirrors], where the brackets represent an invitation for each artist to fill in this space with the word in their respective mother tongue. But in most cases this space would have to remain blank. 
When I asked fellow illustrators if we could make a bilingual exhibit in English and their native languages, most said that they don’t know their native language [but know Russian],” said Seseg Jigjitova, a Berlin-based artist from Buryatia. So the illustrators from our republics are reflecting on both their cultural and linguistic identity,” she added. 
The only display featuring an indigenous language was by Sakha artist Sargylana Cherepanova, who looks to reconcile with her ancestral traditions and re-embrace her native culture in her work. 
I was neglecting my Sakha ancestors, my language, my culture because that’s what the russian system taught me to do, because the system spent so much money and effort to russify me,” Cherepanova writes of her work, choosing to spell russia” with a lowercase letter to show contempt for its policies. 
In addition to printed works, Cherepanova also uses videogames as a medium for reflection on Russia’s colonial policies. Her upcoming game Uhuktuu (awakening” in the Sakha language) uses as its starting point the discrimination Russia's ethnic minorities and indigenous peoples experience at home and their disproportionate share of military casualties in the war in Ukraine. 
Seseg Jigjitova was also influenced by Russia’s ongoing invasion of Ukraine. 
On display in Amsterdam were excerpts from Jigjitova’s upcoming graphic novel that documents her personal transformation in the wake of the war and focuses on her deeply personal trauma of racial discrimination and marginalization in her native Siberia. 
My comics were supposed to start from 24 February, but when I started drawing, I realized that I need to go back to my university years when the war in Chechnya started…I try to understand why I didn’t question certain things then,” Jigjitova told The Moscow Times. 
After the war in Ukraine started, I suddenly realized that we don’t exist in the picture of the beautiful Russia of the future that is painted by the liberal opposition — and that we were never there,” Jigjitova explained. 
So I decided that we need to create our own vision of the future literally and figuratively.” 
Another major highlight of [Mirrors] was a concert of traditional folk tunes and classical music from Russia’s ethnic republics performed by Netherlands-based concert pianists Maria Nemtsova and Aliya Iskhaki, saxophonist Vitaly Vatulya and violinist Yulia Gubaydullina. 
The musicians performed works by Mari composer Andrei Eshpai, Komi composer Mikhail Gertsman, Sakha composer Nikolay Berestov, trailblazing female Dagestani composer Jennet Dalgat and her compatriot Gotfried Gasanov, as well as Tatar composer Almaz Monasypov — all of them rare musical treasures largely unknown to both foreign and Russian audiences. 
I didn’t want to play just classical music, but wanted to find pieces with folk elements,” pianist Aliya Iskhaki told The Moscow Times. 
I have been playing Tatar music in the West for several years and I know that the general public here is open and interested in hearing something they don’t know,” she said, adding that finding the sheet music had been an adventure of its own.” Few copies of the music were printed in the Soviet Union and only some of the works were later digitized by devoted fans. Happily, they were willing to share them for this charity event. 
All funds raised at the Saturday event were donated to a children’s hospice in Ukraine. The resilience of Ukrainians was also recognized by musicians who began the concert with a piece by Ukrainian composer Myroslav Skoryk, Melody in A Minor,” which has become the unofficial spiritual hymn of the nation. 
Ukrainians are fighting for the right to be Ukrainian, to speak the Ukrainian language. They are fighting for their culture,” said Pylaeva of Free Russia NL. 
This resonates with many ethnic non-Russians in Russia.” 
Demonstrators also gathered at the Natural Resources and Ecology Ministry in Moscow on Thursday. 
With wildfires raging across Siberia and Russia’s Far East, about 1,000 residents of the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk on Thursday called for the resignation of the region’s governor, who said at the start of the crisis it wasn’t economically profitable to fight the blazes. 
Wildfires have swept across a swath of Russia the size of Belgium. Greenpeace Russia has called them an ecological catastrophe,” while Russia’s Emergencies Ministry said the forest fires had spread because of insufficient measures to extinguish fires.” 
Although officials have sprung to action in recent days, with Russian President Vladimir Putin ordering Russia’s army to help put out the fires, activists say that the way the authorities have handled the crisis is symptomatic of misplaced priorities. 
The forest fires were the boiling point that prompted the people to take to the streets,” Krasnoyarsk resident Ruslan Farmanov was cited by the Regnum news site as saying at the scene of the protests Thursday. 
The demonstration was the latest in a rising tide of civil discontent across Russia over falling standards of living, which has seen a steep drop in ratings for Putin and the ruling United Russia Party. 
Much of that dissatisfaction has been tied to ecological concerns. Last year, a poll by the Presidential Human Rights Council that found that the right which respondents felt was most violated by the authorities was their environmental safety. 
Over the past year demonstrations have erupted across the country demanding officials solve a growing trash crisis, as landfills are overflowing and emitting toxic fumes. 
Now activists are also protesting over how officials have handled the forest fires. They blame the authorities for reacting slowly and leaving several cities with populations over a million people blanketed in heavy smoke. 
Protests spread like a bacteria. You can put them out in one place, but they will pop up in another soon enough,” said Andrei Kolesnikov, the chair of the Russian Domestic Politics and Political Institutions Program at the Carnegie Moscow Center. 
And while not all of the protests going on, like those over garbage or fires seem to be political, they are all tied together because they are ultimately about human dignity,” he added. 
In Krasnoyarsk, which has been particularly affected by this year’s forest fires, residents directed their anger over the situation toward the region’s United Russia governor Alexander Uss, who at a youth forum last month called fighting the fires economically unprofitable.” 
This is a common natural phenomenon, which is meaningless to fight, and at times perhaps even harmful,” he said. 
The protesters gathered Thursday evening with the approval of Krasnoyark’s City Hall carried signs reading You have money for propaganda but not for forests” and We’ll get our rights.” 
More than 4,000 kilometers away in Moscow, where demonstrations have been ongoing for nearly three weeks over fair elections, several dozen protesters picketed outside the Natural Resources and Ecology Ministry. Activists held posters saying Fight fires not the opposition” and Those who love money more than forests are a foe to me.” 
Asking not to be named because interviews have to be agreed with the ministry’s press service, one employee observing the picketers disputed the view that the authorities hadn’t acted correctly in comments to The Moscow Times. 
Teenagers smoke in the woods and drop matches there, so fires break out,” she said. Our minister is there now, what else do they want?” 
Activists, however, said that Russian officials don’t begin problem-solving until they see a public outcry. 
They only begin moving once they see protesters on the streets,” said Leonid Kriger of the Socialist Alternative movement. We saw the same with Ivan Golunov,” he added, referring to protests in Moscow last month that preceded the release of an investigative journalist jailed on what appeared to be fabricated drug charges. 
Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev visited Krasnoyarsk on Wednesday and said local officials would have until November to determine if the fires were deliberately started to hide illegal logging activity. 
But the picketers told The Moscow Times that looking for the direct cause of the fires ignores the larger concern of climate change. 
The authorities have been practically ignoring this issue,” said Yekaterina Zolotarevskaya, a 24-year-old environmental activist, who added that she and others planned to continue picketing Friday evening. The hit to the environment from these fires is scary to even think about.” 
Caucasian glaciers have lost a quarter of their surface area to climate change since the millennium. 
KARMADON, North Ossetia — In the Karmadon Valley, humans have always lived by the glaciers’ rules. 
For hundreds of years, the inhabitants of this bleak, slender valley a few miles from the Georgian border built their homes in eyries that line the cliff sides, fearing the once-in-a-generation glacial surges that devastated the valley floor. 
The Soviet authorities, thinking they knew better, built a village down below. Its remains are there today as a testament to their hubris, after a 2002 glacial collapse brought millions of tons of mud, ice and rock crashing down on Karmadon, killing 140 people. 
On a snowless December day two decades later, the Maili glacier, which sits around 800 meters above the ghost village, is speckled black with exposed rock, eaten away by weeks of unnatural winter warmth. For locals, the vanishing of the valley’s glaciers hammers home how climate change is already rewriting the rules of life in this distant corner of Russia. 
We don’t have winters here anymore,” said Sergei Nureddinov, a guest house owner in the mountaintop village of Verkhniy Kani, gesturing to the glacier from his front yard. 
The climate catastrophe is here.” 
Everyone in the Karmadon valley remembers where they were on the evening of Sept. 20, 2002. 
Though the Kolka glacier — one of three that span the peaks above Karmadon — had always experienced violent surges every seventy years or so, no one expected the catastrophic avalanche of rock, ice and mud that swept 12 kilometers through the valley in minutes. 
Among the dead was the actor Sergei Bodrov Junior, heartthrob star of the iconic 1997 Russian gangster film Brother,” who had been directing a film shoot nearby when the glacier gave way. 
Today, monuments to Bodrov — whose body has never been found — pepper the Karmadon valley, an impoverished district where roads swept away by the glacier have never been relaid, and where tunnels remain clogged with two-decade-old rubble. 
In the devastated Karmadon village, built to service a Soviet-era VIP sanatorium which has stood empty since the collapse, the few inhabitants who have stayed are crammed into a single Soviet-era housing block, itself now half-empty, standing alone on the mountainside. 
Most people didn’t want to come back after what happened,” said guest house owner Nureddinov, who lost seven relatives in the disaster. 
Though the 2002 landslide is not generally thought to have been caused by climate change, it coincided with a new era of uncertainty in this part of the Caucasus. 
Shortly before the turn of the millennium, Gennady Nosenko, a Moscow-based glaciologist at the Russian Academy of Sciences, began to notice unusual changes in the North Caucasian glaciers. 
Although glaciers worldwide have been retreating since the end of the Little Ice Age in the 19th century, Nosenko at first assumed that data from the Soviet-era glacier monitoring stations in the Caucasus Mountains that showed the retreat picking up at unprecedented speed was somehow faulty. 
After 1998, we would check every year, expecting to see that it had gone into reverse,” Nosenko told The Moscow Times. 
But it never did.” 
Instead, the glaciers that honeycomb the central section of the range entered into a sustained and precipitous retreat that continues to the present day. 
According to a 2021 paper co-authored by Nosenko, Caucasian glaciers have lost around 25% of their surface area since the millennium, with about 1% of the region’s entire glacier surface melting each year. 
It’s only one part of a worldwide acceleration in climate change-driven glacier melt, which has seen glacier retreat double in speed over 20 years, with mid-latitude glaciers in Europe, the Middle East and Caucasus among the hardest hit. 
Doomed glaciers 
All across the Caucasus, the retreat of the glaciers is all too evident. 
Sixty miles from Karmadon, in one of North Ossetia’s most popular tourist spots, the Tsey glacier, a lumpy, snow-dusted sheet of turquoise ice, lolls in the dip between a trio of peaks. Once a sheet of frozen water, a vast, smooth-sided depression bears witness to how much ground the glacier has ceded. 
Like most of its Caucasian cousins, the Tsey glacier is doomed. 
Located only around two-and-a-half thousand meters above sea level, even the most optimistic projections for climate change and glacier melt suggest it won’t last much longer. The very bleakest scenarios suggest the total disappearance of the Caucasian glaciers by 2050. 
How long the glaciers will survive is the million dollar question,” said Maria Shahgedanova, a climate scientist at the U.K.’s University of Reading. 
They might disappear altogether, or they might survive only at four and a half or five thousand meters. But at lower elevations, they will go.” 
For a decade and a half now, Artyom Nalbandiants has been watching the Tsey glacier vanish in real time. 
First as a border guard patrolling Russia’s mountaintop frontier with Georgia and now as a tour guide escorting trekkers around the region, 31-year-old Nalbandiants has had a front row seat in the final act of the Tsey glacier’s saga. 
Every summer, the glacier retreats by eight to 10 meters,” he said, tracing the retreat with his hands. 
Nalbandiants is one of many North Ossetia residents cashing in on a pandemic-era tourist boom in the otherwise impoverished region, by bussing in tourists to take selfies against the backdrop of the glacier’s death throes. 
It’s sad, of course, that it won’t be here in the future,” he shrugged. But most people don’t seem to care too much.” 
‘Peak water’ 
But for the inhabitants of the mountains, disappearing glaciers portend more than a transformed landscape. 
According to scientists, climate change-induced glacial melt will, in the short term, increase meltwater in the mountains to so-called peak water” as the ice melts ever faster, before dwindling to nothing once the glaciers vanish altogether. 
It's a process that will, in the long-term, have ramifications far beyond North Ossetia’s remote valleys. 
The Caucasian glaciers — themselves in effect gigantic frozen reservoirs whose meltwater keeps the land watered during rainless summer months — are a major source of water for the southern Russian steppe, where climate change is already driving accelerating desertification. 
But for climate scientist Shahgedanova, peak water” also means that mountain communities can expect further disasters in coming years, as lakes formed by retreating glaciers burst their banks, and newly exposed rock faces crumble into avalanches. 
We’re in the ascending stage of peak water right now,” said Shahgedanova. This will cause more glacier-related disasters.” 
Already, the glaciers’ absence is making itself felt, as retreating ice leaves a new and unfamiliar environment in its wake, one fraught with new dangers. 
In 2000, the mining town of Tyrnauz in the neighboring Kabardino-Balkaria Republic was devastated by mudflows which killed dozens, as lakes formed beneath melting glaciers burst their banks. In 2017, a similar disaster near the tourist hub of Mount Elbrus killed three. 
‘It’s a very unstable system,” said Shahgedanova. The dangers are very real.” 
Even so, most locals insist they don’t fear the consequences of a changing climate on their mountain homeland, even if they cannot deny the transformation playing out in front of them. 
Climate change has never been a top flight issue in Russia, where the majority are more concerned by burning issues of corruption and poverty. In depressed regions like North Ossetia, climate is even further down the agenda, despite the immediate threat posed to life under the glaciers. 
Asked if the transforming landscape would ever force him to leave his mountain home, Karmadon guest house owner Nureddinov cited an old Russian proverb. 
If you’re afraid of the wolves, don’t go into the forest,” he shrugged. 
President Vladimir Putin has finalized the roster of his administration and government as his fifth term gets off to a start, with new faces including sons of friends and allies as well as officials rumored to be in the running to succeed him. 
With much of his team staying unchanged, the new appointments appear to signal his intention to maintain the status quo — both at home and in the war in Ukraine — while limiting the influence of those who failed to achieve victory in the invasion. 
"The main thing to come out of the reshuffle in the government and the Kremlin is the removal of those who failed in the military invasion [of Ukraine], despite their new positions [signaling otherwise]," former Russian government staffer Alexei Levchenko told The Moscow Times. 
Perhaps the most unexpected personnel change is the appointment of Alexei Dyumin, Putin's former personal security guard, to the post of presidential aide. 
Dyumin, who also served as deputy defense minister and deputy head of the GRU military intelligence service, has been named in the media as a potential successor to both ex-Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Putin himself. 
A known favorite of Putin’s, Dyumin has served as governor of the Tula region south of Moscow, a key hub for the military industry, for the past eight years. His comeback to Moscow — where he will oversee the military-industrial complex — coincided with Shoigu’s firing as defense minister and appointment to head the Security Council. 
He will look after the Defense Ministry on the one hand and balance Shoigu [and limit his influence] on the other,” a government official told The Moscow Times, speaking on condition of anonymity because he was not authorized to discuss internal matters publicly. 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov insisted that Shoigu’s new role is an important job with responsibility.” 
But despite the Security Council’s influence, Shoigu’s reassignment is seen as an unambiguous downgrade and removal from an active role” after he suffered a series of failures in Ukraine, an official in the Kremlin told The Moscow Times, also speaking on condition of anonymity. 
Meanwhile, ultra-hawk Nikolai Patrushev's dismissal as Security Council chief and appointment as a presidential aide in charge of shipbuilding signals that he will gradually be put out to pasture. 
The Kremlin official characterized this position as too low a level for Patrushev,” implying that the former spy will have a planned and coordinated resignation.” 
But he is still in the president’s inner circle, and his son [Dmitry] has been promoted and is now deputy prime minister,” the official said. 
A former Kremlin official also noted that Patrushev will continue to enjoy direct access to Putin despite his apparent demotion. 
This [access] is one of the main resources in the Russian government today,” the source said. 
Another Putin favorite, Maxim Oreshkin, has been promoted from presidential adviser to the more significant post of assistant to the president. The young economist, another rumored candidate to succeed Putin, will oversee the Economic Development Ministry’s work. 
Former government staffer Levchenko said Putin appears to be moving away from the approach of previous administrations, which saw different elite factions competing for the same industries. 
Now, the industries are assigned to a specific clan. The military-industrial complex to [Rostec head Sergei] Chemezov, transportation to the Rotenbergs, agriculture to the FSB,” Levchenko said. 
Levchenko said the rise of ‘princes’” — men close to Putin’s family or the sons of men close to Putin — was another important feature of the latest reshuffle in the Kremlin and the government. 
He pointed to Yury Kovalchuk’s son Boris, Patrushev’s son Dmitry and Sergei Tsivilyov, who is reportedly married to Putin's great-niece, all of whom have been given positions in the Accounts Chamber and government this week. 
War of attrition 
According to exiled former Prime Minister Mikhail Kasyanov, Putin wishes to launch a blitzkrieg in Ukraine that would seize Kyiv and Odesa and cut the country off from the Black Sea before making peace on his terms. 
However, he remains hesitant to do so and will instead seek to win the more than two-year-long war by dragging it out and exhausting Ukraine’s resources, Kasyanov said in an interview with independent investigative outlet The Insider. 
Putin’s choice of Andrei Belousov, an economist and technocrat, to replace Shoigu as defense minister offers further evidence that Putin expects a lengthy war of attrition. 
It is clear from the latest appointments that Putin is choosing to continue the war of attrition,” Kasyanov said. [He realizes] that Russia has a much larger human resource than Ukraine and that the economy is more powerful than in Ukraine despite the sanctions.” 
Yet apart from these reshuffles, Putin’s team will largely remain as it was in his previous term, The Moscow Times’ sources said. 
Throughout the invasion of Ukraine, officials who have long held senior positions in Putin’s apparatus have stayed in place. 
At the moment, the president is generally satisfied with the state of affairs in the Kremlin as well as in the government,” a source close to the Kremlin said. 
Among those who have kept their jobs are presidential administration head Anton Vaino and his two top deputies in charge of public policy issues and propaganda, Alexei Gromov and Sergei Kiriyenko. 
The Kremlin’s chief lawyer, chief personnel officer, foreign policy aides and chief speechwriter will also remain unchanged. 
When asked why the sweeping personnel changes that many observers expected would follow Putin’s inauguration did not take place, a government official said: Why change wives every six years?” 
The Wagner mercenary outfit’s short-lived mutiny against Russia’s military leadership has cast a shadow of uncertainty over the future of the private military group’s far-flung presence abroad, where it worked to covertly advance the Kremlin’s geopolitical interests. 
While the Kremlin swiftly moved to dissolve Wagner’s structures in Russia and Ukraine by handing its military hardware to the conventional Russian military and offering its members to sign contracts with the Defense Ministry, the future of its overseas units remains highly volatile, experts say. 
It will be important for Moscow to take over these operations because they give [Wagner founder Yevgeny] Prigozhin some sort of leverage,” said Ivan Kłyszcz, an expert at the International Center for Defense and Security in Tallinn, Estonia. 
In nearly a decade of operation, Wagner’s mercenaries have taken part in an array of conflicts throughout the world, including in Syria, Libya, the Central African Republic (CAR), Mali and Sudan. 
Having boots on the ground in some of the world’s most volatile places allowed Prigozhin to build a transnational illicit business empire, as multiple investigations suggest, but it also made Wagner a guarantor of Russia’s political influence in parts of Africa and the Middle East. 
Wagner has been operating in Syria since 2015, with 1,000 to 2,000 fighters working in close cooperation with the Defense Ministry and playing a crucial role in safeguarding Russia’s foothold in the Syrian economy, according to Victor Tricaud, senior analyst at Control Risks, a global risk consultancy firm. 
More realistically, these forces could either remain part of a largely similar paramilitary structure under another leadership… [be] put under the command of the Russian military, or folded into another Moscow-backed PMC operating in Syria,” said Tricaud, who considers Wagner’s complete withdrawal highly unlikely.” 
The Kremlin will likely deploy similar reorganization strategies in both Syria and Libya,” Tricaud told The Moscow Times. 
Insider information revealed by Reuters earlier this month suggested that Syrian authorities and Russian military commanders indeed offered Wagner mercenaries to sign contracts with the Defense Ministry in the early hours of the rebellion. Fighters who refused the terms were allegedly flown out of the country shortly after. 
In addition to military involvement, Prigozhin also possessed wide-ranging business interests in Syria — from receiving a share of revenues from the oil fields liberated” by Wagner to extending loans to the government of Moscow-backed dictator Bashar al-Assad. 
Wagner’s investments in Syria did exist on paper and were significant,” said Karam Shaar, a senior fellow at the Washington-based think tank New Lines Institute and specialist on Syria’s economy. However, they were not generating profit, they were dormant.” 
I think what Putin is going to do is basically force Prigozhin to hand these investments over to another investor,” Shaar told The Moscow Times. 
But experts interviewed by The Moscow Times agreed that while the Kremlin will inevitably seize all of Wagner’s foreign operations, most of them are highly unlikely to be incorporated into official government structures such as the Defense or Foreign Ministry. 
What the Kremlin will do is the same thing it does every time it seizes a company: it will divide those assets up among the elite, particularly the oligarchs,” said Jeff Hawn, a non-resident fellow at the New Lines Institute. 
Wagner’s existence in the shadow of the state has long offered an array of benefits to the Kremlin, the most apparent one being that Russia was able to maintain a considerable military presence in multiple foreign locations with no need to inform the Russian public of its financial or human costs. 
Wagner allows the regime to have influence abroad without putting all of its eggs in one basket: it doesn’t need to give more funding or support to the military directly or the Foreign Ministry,” said Hawn. 
Now that Wagner’s global assets are up for grabs, Kremlin-linked tycoons could also make use of Wagner’s global trafficking routes and logistics infrastructure, which includes as many as 65 shell companies worldwide among other assets, according to Hawn. 
A direct takeover is particularly unlikely in locations across Africa where Wagner mercenaries managed to gain a foothold backed by an extensive network of local contacts, institutional connections and business investments. 
The paramilitary group’s unmatched expertise and far-reaching presence make replacing it both nearly impossible and highly undesirable for the Kremlin, especially in places like CAR and Mali. 
Wagner has been at the forefront of defining what Russia’s interests in Africa are. They are operating in highly complex conflicts with very powerful local actors and it has taken them years to figure out how these things work,” John Lechner, the author of a forthcoming book about Wagner, told The Moscow Times. 
Several hundred Wagner fighters arrived in CAR’s capital of Bangui on Monday to replace their fellow mercenaries who departed the country in the wake of the mutiny. That departure had initially stirred speculation that the group might leave the country for good, though CAR’s presidency firmly denied this. 
Lechner confirmed that CAR is likely to witness a continuation of the status quo” when it comes to Wagner’s presence in the short term. 
Even if we were to see a change in management… I think a lot of the same faces would still be around,” he said. 
At least six former and current law enforcement officials have been arrested on various charges in Russia’s third-largest city of Yekaterinburg over the past week, the independent news website Govorit NeMoskva reported Friday. 
Andrei Dyakov, who heads the anti-corruption department at the Sverdlovsk region branch of Russia’s Interior Ministry, was charged with abuse of power and bribery. Authorities accuse him of accepting 200 million rubles ($2.2 million) in bribes, allegations that he denies. 
A Yekaterinburg court ruled Thursday to keep Dyakov in pre-trial detention until July 20, according to local media. 
Besides Dyakov, state media reported that authorities detained Sergei Loginov, who heads the regional branch of Russia’s Federal Tax Service. While the agency denied the reports, Loginov’s biography disappeared from its website, and Marina Khan was instead listed as acting head of the regional tax service branch as of May 17. 
There were no details available on what, if any, charges Loginov faces. According to local media reports, citing anonymous sources, law enforcement officials from Moscow” have sought to keep the case against the tax official under wraps. 
Last week, meanwhile, former anti-drug police chief Vladislav Sobolev and four other officers were charged over the 2000 killing of three people, the Kommersant business daily reported. Sobolev, who was dismissed that same year, was sentenced to 15 years in prison on drug dealing charges in 2006, according to the newspaper. 
It was not immediately clear if the cases against the six law enforcement officials were connected, or if they represented a wider crackdown in the region’s security services. 
At least seven people have been killed in historic flooding that hit the Ural Mountains cities of Orenburg and Orsk this month, independent media has reported, as authorities denied any casualties. 
Orenburg is just starting to emerge from some of its worst flooding in almost a century after the nearby Ural River began swelling in early April and reached nearly 12 meters over the weekend. While water levels in the city of 550,000 are gradually receding, local officials warned that rising waters in the Ural River’s tributaries continue to threaten some Orenburg neighborhoods and nearby settlements. 
The investigative news outlet IStories initially reported this week that five people declared missing by their relatives had been found dead. 
Two more bodies were found Wednesday in Orsk, according to IStories. The outlet said the victims were an 81-year-old woman with a disability who had refused to evacuate and her 49-year-old son, who were both found at their home. 
That brought the reported death toll to six in Orsk and one in Orenburg. 
Some of the victims’ relatives accuse local authorities of withholding the causes of death to avoid paying damages to their families, IStories said. 
It cited an anonymous volunteer for missing persons in Orsk who claimed that the number of victims was higher than those declared missing, saying: I can’t name the exact figure, but it’s a lot.” 
Russia’s Emergency Situations Ministry has maintained that no one was killed directly by the floods. 
On April 7, when the flood waters started rising rapidly after a dam burst on the Ural River, the Orsk mayor’s office said four people had died from unrelated causes. 
The western Siberian region of Kurgan — where floods have peaked this week — evacuated 14,300 people from the rising Tobol River, local Governor Vadim Shumkov told President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday. 
On Thursday, the Kurgan regional administration warned that the Tobol River had risen to 9.72 meters near the city of Kurgan and up to 11 meters in other parts of the region. 
Don't wait for the water to reach your homes, evacuate early,” it said. 
For years, Russian landowners have watched a toxic, invasive plant species spread across their properties like wildfire and have been helpless to act. 
Sosnovsky’s hogweed — a monstrous plant that can tower up to five meters in height — has spread unchecked across the country, wreaking havoc on ecosystems and landing thousands in the hospital every year. 
I was burned, even through a tarp storm jacket,” said biologist and forestry expert Alexei Yaroshenko, who once mowed hogweed on his property while wearing waterproof fabric. 
It was the hogweed sap that flew from the hand scythe [that caused my burns]. The burns were healing for six months,” Yaroshenko told The Moscow Times. 
In a bid to combat the plant, Russian lawmakers in February preliminarily approved a bill imposing hefty fines on those who fail to clear it from their properties. 
If passed into law, the anti-hogweed bill” will force individuals to roll up their sleeves and clear this unyielding plant from their lands — but at their own risk. 
Hogweed sap contains furanocoumarins, toxic compounds that can cause third-degree burns when exposed to sunlight as well as blindness. Severe burns covering over 80% of the body can be fatal. 
Due to its high reproduction rate, with a single plant yielding from 20,000 to 100,000 seeds, hogweed currently dominates up to 15% of the natural landscapes of European Russia, some estimates suggest. 
Yaroshenko estimated that hogweed thickets have spread across 1 million hectares in Russia — an area roughly equivalent to Cyprus or Lebanon. 
As hogweed continues to take over Russia's roadsides, fields and dachas, experts question how effective the new law will be without systemic solutions. 
The new law imposes fines of up to 50,000 rubles ($540) on individuals — about two-thirds of the average Russian salary in 2023 — and up to 700,000 rubles ($7,550) on legal entities for failing to eliminate the aggressive plant from their properties. 
In practice, these fines are likely to be arbitrary, targeting whoever happens to get caught, Yaroshenko said. 
Right now, our government tends to address all problems with fines at best or imprisonment at worst,” he said. 
This approach is ineffective because it's impossible to fine everyone. Hogweed is growing practically everywhere now — on any farmer's or agricultural business’s land.” 
Soviet experiments 
Following Russian officials’ narrative of blaming the West for the nation's problems, State Duma deputy Timofei Bazhenov claimed without evidence in February that hogweed may be "part of the U.S. bacteriological warfare against Russia." 
The real picture is closer to one of self-inflicted harm. 
After World War II, Soviet scientists embarked on a quest to find new high-yielding foraging crops to feed livestock. 
Sosnowsky's hogweed, distinguished by its cold resistance and phenomenal productivity, gained momentum and was deliberately brought from its natural habitat in the mountainous forests of the Caucasus to the center of the U.S.S.R., where it easily dominated the native low-lying grasses. 
During the post-war famine, many Soviet regions embraced hogweed growth until concerns about its safety brought its cultivation to a halt. By that point, it was too late to stop hogweed’s relentless spread across the country. 
These days, the plant is so ubiquitous that it has even permeated Russian pop culture, being featured in popular TV series, computer games and rock songs. One internet user prompted AI to generate images from the HBO series The Last of Us” if it took place in Soviet Russia, with people getting infected with hogweed instead of cordyceps. 
According to Yaroshenko, about 90% of hogweed tickets in Russia are found on abandoned agricultural lands — vast areas rendered unprofitable for cultivation after the Soviet collapse and Russia’s turn to a market economy. 
While reforestation on those lands could help alleviate the hogweed problem, this is prohibited under current laws. 
"This colossal seed productivity of hogweed is observed on open agricultural lands in full sunlight,” Yaroshenko said. But under the canopy of a dense shady forest, hogweed’s growth is much more fragile." 
Yaroshenko expects that many abandoned farmlands in Russia will not only remain unusable but expand with time as agricultural practices become more efficient — creating more fertile ground for hogweed’s conquest. 
Alternative forms of land use are needed. Allowing [people and businesses] to grow forests is one of the most effective ways because the forest serves as both an economic asset and a means of combating hogweed,” Yaroshenko said. 
He added that current regulations, with multiple official checks and stringent reporting requirements, are crippling Russia’s farmers and small agricultural producers, which "practically cannot survive." 
There is no way that people will survive and thrive as regulations become more nightmarish,” Yaroshenko said. "This means that we will have a new wave of abandonment of agricultural lands.” 
Hogweed will say ‘thank you’." 
A silent disaster 
Once it takes over a particular area, hogweed effectively displaces local species, significantly threatening biodiversity. 
As the ecological consequences of the plant’s proliferation are often not immediately apparent, activist groups refer to it as a "slowly unfolding environmental catastrophe." By the time a dacha owner suspects something is wrong on their property, millions of hogweed seeds have already permeated the soil. 
As Russians continue to abandon small villages in favor of cities, which are now home to three-quarters of the country’s population, there might be even fewer people on the ground to battle the plant’s spread in the future. 
The Anti-Hogweed grassroots group, a collective of thousands of hogweed fighters from across Russia, equips individuals with strategies for eliminating the plant from affected lands and preserving still-untouched areas. 
Clamping down on hogweed remains challenging because of the common practice of focusing on thickets while neglecting areas where individual plants are growing, a representative of the Anti-Hogweed grassroots group told The Moscow Times. 
Many also struggle to distinguish hogweed from other species or lack knowledge of its threats to nature, a representative for the group said, requesting anonymity due to the risks of speaking to foreign media. 
Along with activists’ efforts, there’s a need for a government-led awareness campaign similar to those during the peak of the Covid-19 pandemic, the representative said. 
"[Something] like 'wear masks, wash hands,' so that it would resonate from all directions." 
According to the Earth Touches Me environmental project, combating invasive species like hogweed requires a comprehensive state program, substantial funding and public awareness efforts. 
Otherwise, eradicating hogweed will remain an uphill battle that will only worsen with climate change. 
Skoltech researchers warned in 2022 that the planet’s warming would enable Sosnovsky’s hogweed to expand its habitat, potentially engulfing almost all of European Russia by 2050. 
The plant has already been spotted beyond the Arctic Circle on the Yamal Peninsula, raising concerns for traditional indigenous livelihoods. 
Having seen hogweed with his own eyes in Russia’s northern Arkhangelsk region several years ago, Yaroshenko said he believes the plant will spread even further as the planet continues to warm. 
Amid the high costs and complexity of combating the invasive plant, he warned that the hogweed problem will require more attention than merely imposing fines. 
If there are no serious additional support measures from the state, the issue will not be resolved.” 
Born of the devil and filled with the devil’s blood”: this was how Soviet dissident Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn, with his typical vitriol, described the Gulag medical system. As far as he was concerned, doctors in the Gulag prison camps were pawns in a system designed to extract every ounce of labor from its prisoners. 
The brutal labor camp system came into existence during Soviet dictator Josef Stalin’s First Five Year Plan (1928-32) and resulted in the death of almost two million people. The labor camp system nonetheless required a work force which was, at a minimum, free of infectious disease and capable of work. 
By 1939, the Gulag medical network consisted of 1,171 infirmaries, clinics, and hospitals with 39,839 beds, 2,459 qualified doctors, 7,290 nurses, feldshers and pharmacists for a population of 1.6 million prisoners. This was over double the number of doctors per capita in civilian services. 
But the presence of doctors in the Gulag is a confusing and even contradictory phenomenon. How could such an unforgiving labor camp system be reconciled with Soviet commitments to provide its citizens with welfare as well as the medical profession’s own imperative to heal, care for and save? 
In his latest book The Gulag Doctors: Life, Death and Medicine in Stalin’s Labour Camp,” shortlisted for the 2024 Pushkin House Book Prize, Dan Healey, Professor of Modern Russian History at Oxford University, tackles precisely this contradiction. He contends that Solzhenitsyn’s harsh dismissal of Gulag medicine as born of the devil” has impeded a study of Gulag medicine as part of the broader experiences of Soviet forced labor. 
Previous studies of the Gulag medical system by Boris Nakhapetov and Golfo Alexopoulo have tended to concentrate on government policy as documented in central state archives and that policy’s neglect for human life. Healey, instead, draws on a combination of central and local archival and museum collections to detail the stories of professional doctors and their experiences when confronted with the extreme conditions of the Gulag. From the earliest pioneers” of Gulag medicine right through to its post war years, Healey’s study covers cases from northern European Russia in Arkhangelsk and the Komi Republic to Siberia’s far northern nickel-mining center in Norilsk. 
Healey’s analysis is structured around the biographies of both freely hired” and prisoner professionals. 
In Part I, he tackles the experiences of doctors as subordinate to the camp commandants, navigating repression, supply shortages and immense isolation. 
The reasons that free professionals made their way to the Gulag were wide ranging. Some, such as Nina Savoeva, volunteered as young and naïve Komsomol members motivated by a sincere sense of patriotism. Others, like Yan Pullerits, had been seasoned physicians previously and hoped to accelerate their careers further in the Gulag. 
Some of the prisoner-doctors” had experience as medics before being thrown behind barbed wire, too. Vadim Aleksandrovsky was sent to the Gulag just as he was preparing to sit his final medical examinations at the Leningrad Military Medical Academy. It is his trajectory from greenhorn to skilled medic, and the similar experiences of others who found patronage and mentorship under senior medical bureaucrats, that Healey tracks in Part II, depicting how Gulag medics sought to build medical careers, using the Gulag as a quasi-educational facility. 
Part III explores how scientific curiosity of medical practitioners often fueled official and unofficial research projects. The Ukrainian radiologist Yakov Kaminsky, for example, dreamed of using the radium rich waters of the Ukhta region for therapeutic purposes and then constructing a Northern Resort.” But given the planners’ negligence and the weakness of experts in the face of state power, the project ultimately resulted in the radioactive poisoning of an entire community. 
Read individually, these biographies would be a rather anecdotal history of the Gulag medical system. But taken together, they serve as a window into a grey zone” of labor-camp experience, revealing a clear picture of doctors who were human and made choices that came with ethical consequences. 
Solzhenitsyn would say that because these doctors were collaborators in the system, they were therefore perpetrators. But these medics tended to see themselves as victims. As Healey’s book reveals, making a clear distinction between victim and perpetrator is nearly impossible, and this leaves a large question mark over how such medical professionals ought to be remembered. 
Thus, just as Healey contests Solzhenitsyn’s claim that the Gulag medical system was born of the devil,” his conclusion appears to side with another of Solzhenitsyn’s famous statements that the line separating good and evil passes… right through every human heart.” 
The Gulag Doctors: Life, Death, and Medicine in Stalin's Labour Camps 
From Chapter 2 
Vitamin deficiencies and mass mortality 
At Rudnik, in late 1938 or early 1939, Nikolai Glazov, only recently appointed sanchast director, participated in a commission to review prisoner living conditions, conducted by the camp administration, internal security, and Sanotdel officials. The results were dire: tents used as barracks exposed zeks to freezing temperatures; there was insufficient clothing and bed linen to compensate; and as early as November 1938 meat and fish reserves had run out, leading to avitaminosis – vitamin deficiencies. Glazov had encountered the same illnesses early in his career in the border guards of Central Asia, where the diet was equally limited; he now sought to educate his new medical colleagues who ‘had never met with these [illnesses]’. 
Scurvy, vitamin C deficiency, and pellagra, caused by a B-vitamin shortage, were the main scourges which were hardly new to Gulag prisoners by 1938; but young doctors fresh from the medical institute benches, often freely hired, and older ones who had practised in urban Russia, usually prisoners, were unlikely to have encountered them. Glazov recalls making a speech that failed to convince his sceptical co-workers about the nature of avitaminosis to a Rudnik production conference: 
I explained the threat posed by vitamin deficiencies, about the need for meat and fish, but I got little support from the other doctors. They did not understand that even with sufficient food of a monotonous carbohydrate-based diet – and it was far from a sufficiency – we would not correct vitamin deficiencies. But after that meeting the administration nevertheless began to buy meat from the reindeer-herders and organised fishing brigades from the tundra lakes. 
Glazov found two young, female doctors (likely free employees) particularly resistant to the concept of vitamin deficiency: they put a pellagra patient with whom they sympathised on the ‘strictest of diets’ that only made his condition worse. In a characteristically dry gesture, Glazov suggested to them they grant their ‘hopeless’ patient ‘his last wish’: a ‘general diet, meat’ meal, a consolation to both him and the doctors. The patient began to recover; ‘with embarrassment they told me how he was eating eagerly, especially meat, and was noticeably improved. From then on they trusted my experience of treating avitaminosis.’ 
The prevalence of vitamin deficiencies presaged worse to come during the wartime supply crisis that caused Gulag mortality to jump sharply. Glazov was posted to the invalid’s camp Adzva-Vom in 1942, just as prisoner mortality was spiking across the camps. The doctor’s memoir approaches the mass death he witnesses dispassionately, with no comment on the penal system’s lack of food. At this camp ‘many died, simply because they were very weak, and the exhausted organism could not resist the slightest disease. People were driven to extremes of exhaustion.’ The next camp Glazov moved to in 1943, Inta, a coal-mining, timber and service-farming camp of 9,000 prisoners, was a place where the dying were concentrated, evidently, by the authorities’ deliberate design. There were large numbers of tuberculosis and pellagra patients; the only medicine for diarrhoea available was the natural remedy of ‘clay and willow bark’; even paper to keep track of patient histories was in short supply. Glazov says he was assigned to direct a department of the Inta Sangorodok housing seventy patients; a local historian records him as deputy director of the Sangorodok, and therefore more responsible for conditions there. In Glazov’s own words, ‘The Sangorodok was not so much a hospital, as a throng of the dying.’ A transport of prisoners arrived with many dead, and he notes how their frozen remains made a grim impression: 
These corpses were brought to us in the morgue. In the morning we were to conduct several autopsies. We entered the morgue; it was crowded with frozen corpses. Someone muttered ‘Auschwitz’. Some of the dead were standing on their legs and leaned against the warm stove. The sight of reclining corpses surprised no one, but the dead standing on their feet and warming up by the stove was unusual and unpleasant. 
This troubling passage, with its reference to the Nazi death camp, illustrates Glazov’s attempt to reflect on the mass mortality he witnessed. While Auschwitz was mentioned tersely in Soviet newspapers from June 1941, Soviet media did not describe the death camp in detail until late January 1945. It may be that Glazov had heard of the camp from other prisoners. Its mention here, in a text composed so long after the event, seems less a faithful record of what was said, than a retrospective attempt to process the trauma of this sight. The pages of his reminiscences that follow describe patients he treated in the midst of mass mortality. These cases are presented as memorable because the authorities or other doctors prevented their receiving adequate care, often due to misdiagnosis, while Glazov with his superior knowledge, detective skills, and therapeutic talent, identified the genuine cause of illness and rescued the patient. In one example, a young pilot, diagnosed with syphilis, turned out to be suffering from pellagra once Glazov familiarised himself with the case. He pursued treatment to a successful conclusion, despite resistance from the authorities, who had an animus against the pilot. In the prisoner-doctor’s account, the ubiquitous manifestations of mass starvation and mortality evoke little pity or reflection, but instead an assertion of the memoirist’s greater scientific knowledge and medical prowess. 
Who was Nikolai Glazov? 
In 1999 Margarita Nikolaevna Glazova introduced her father’s memoir by stating that he had been unjustly arrested on charges ‘that bore no relationship to reality’. In the Gulag he met ‘many interesting people – from the milieu of old revolutionaries, intelligentsia, citizens of other countries’. The heart of the memoir, in her view, was its record of these encounters. She balances the shade and light of her father’s situation in the camps as follows: 
A. Glazov survived in inhuman conditions thanks to his artistry as a doctor: he cured not only prisoners, but their guards as well. Even under threat of retribution he helped his comrades in misfortune: he obtained release for the weak from unbearable labour, transfer to lighter regime. The stories of the doctor about his patients are full of invaluable medical experience acquired in the harshest of conditions of labour-camp life. It is the science of survival in the literal sense of the word. 
Political victim, committed physician, cultured individual. Having assisted him in writing his memoirs, this was Margarita Glazova’s assessment of her father. She understood herself to be a child of one of Stalin’s victims of repression and framed his experience accordingly. By framing the prisoner-doctor as a ‘victim’, this memoir avoided nuanced retrospection; no searching dialogue between the glasnost-era pensioner and his younger Stalin-era self takes place in the text. Instead, ‘tangled interweavings of fact and self-representation’ remain that raise more questions than they settle. 
Puzzled by this arrested retrospection and intrigued by this Gulag prisoner-doctor’s relationship with the chekists that spanned three decades, I have read Nikolai Glazov as a survivor as well as a victim of the Soviet system. He was someone with a ‘spoilt biography’ who joined the Party in 1922 proclaiming his surprisingly instant faith in ‘the inevitability of world revolution’. He rejected working secretly for the OGPU in 1924 but by 1933 he was on the OGPU payroll, admiring its discipline, collecting provisions in its closed shops, and relishing his undercover role on Red Square at Clara Zetkin’s funeral. When he was cast out as a ‘counterrevolutionary’ he found his feet in the Gulag as a doctor, and almost certainly survived thanks to his chance encounter with Sanotdel boss and ex-prisoner Nikolai Viktorov. But he also survived thanks to his professional training, his inclination to ingratiate himself to the ‘bosses’, and his understanding of the chekist milieu. In that milieu rules were there to be bent, broken, or leaned upon according to the situation, and as essential as the morphine purloined from veterinary supplies or the documents that ‘ceased to be tufta’ once created. In his own prose Nikolai Glazov expresses his pride in his medical skill, implicitly framing his service in the Gulag as honourable because he was true to his scientific training and his ‘artistry as a doctor’. ‘Dry as dust’ he might be, and short on empathy, but his diagnoses were accurate and his prescriptions sound. As a prisoner-doctor he was perhaps unusually compliant and comfortable in the company of the camp commandants. Glazov’s memoir offers us Gulag medicine as a precarious undertaking for the prisoner-doctor, a ‘grey zone’ occupation where solid medical skills were necessary, but not sufficient, to assure survival. An alertness to the Gulag system’s demands and constraints, an ear for the chekist milieu and its expectations, were essential too: a doctor’s exercise of free clinical judgement in the Gulag was limited by a higher authority. The zek-physician needed an ability to read that higher authority’s signals and, when necessary, trim his healing to suit. Glazov, a prisoner-physician who ‘does not have it easy’ and who was keenly aware of the constraints of his situation, offers a valuable case in the history of Gulag medicine to compare with the ‘freely hired’ doctors we meet next. 
Belarus's autocratic president, Alexander Lukashenko, on Friday ridiculed McDonald's after the announcement it would be replaced by a Russian franchise following its departure over the Ukraine conflict. 
McDonald's in Belarus will from Tuesday operate under the name 'Delicious. Full Stop.', the moniker of the Russian chain that took over the U.S. burger group in Russia in June. 
"Thank God it's leaving," Lukashenko said during a meeting with representatives of the country's agricultural sector. 
"We have to do now ourselves what that McDonald's once did — and even better if we have to!" 
Lukashenko, a former collective farm boss during the Soviet era, has ruled Belarus with an iron fist for nearly three decades, brutally repressing any perceived threat to his rule. 
He is also an ally to Russian President Vladimir Putin, who used neighboring Belarus as a launching pad for his military invention in Ukraine in February, for which both Belarus and Russia have been sanctioned by the West. 
"We also know how to cut bread in half and put a piece of meat, fries and salad in it," Lukashenko said. 
The KSB Victory Restaurants franchise, which operates McDonald's in Belarus, announced earlier in November it would be changing its name to that of the Russian chain. 
Its outlets in Russia first opened their doors on June 12, replacing McDonald's, which left the country over Moscow's Feb. 24 offensive against Ukraine. 
Dozens of other prominent Western brands, including Coca-Cola, H&M and IKEA, have also quit the Russian market since the Kremlin announced the beginning of its "special military operation" in Ukraine. 
It was hard for me there, I wanted to come back all the time,” Alexander Pipkin, his eyes downcast, said in an interview on Belarusian state television at the end of August. 
In the interview, Pipkin is presented as a repenting doctor, formerly part of the Belarusian opposition in exile, who decided to return to his homeland after becoming disillusioned with life in the West. 
Such interviews have become a fixture on state television as Minsk now seeks to lure its citizens living in exile to return home. 
A decree signed by longtime Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko last month limits power of attorney and bans the issuance of Belarusian passports abroad. 
And at the start of 2023, a presidential decree created a return commission” to consider cases of exiled political activists who wish to return. 
These policies have forced many Belarusian exiles into a difficult dilemma: return home to renew their documents — and risk arrest — or stay abroad with limited rights. 
It is very painful,” wrote one Poland-based Belarusian whose social media profile is filled with signs of support for the Belarusian opposition. 
My passport will expire in 2024, this is the only document proving my identity. I debated whether I would be arrested at the border or if they would let me in.” 
Between 200,000 and 300,000 people left Belarus following mass protests against Lukashenko’s disputed re-election in 2020, which were met with a brutally violent crackdown. 
For many of these people, entering their home country continues to carry a high risk. According to the Viasna human rights center, there are 1,482 political prisoners currently in Belarus. 
Those who repent” for their opposition activities and publicly back the regime are supposedly welcome back in Belarus. But in practice, this appears not to be the case. 
Sviatlana Golovneva, legal counsel at Viasna, said many people who have fled Belarus in recent years are detained when crossing the country’s border” upon their return. 
The Belarusian authorities, which continue to track those who took part in the 2020 protests both inside the country and abroad, often force nationals to unlock their phones, checking for any sign of anti-government attitudes and support for the opposition. 
Beyond looking at messages, social media accounts, and photo galleries, the authorities have also started trying to trace the location of a phone’s owner during the 2020 protests by relying on a device’s International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI). 
This is the simplest way to track a person’s location,” said Evgeniia Babaeva, also from Viasna. And because each phone is associated with a unique IMEI, not even switching SIM cards will prevent the authorities from identifying an individual and his past movement if he uses the same device. 
Photos and videos taken of the 2020 protesters, who did not hide their faces, are today used for facial recognition at the border. People are often unaware that their faces and personal information are in such a database — or of the risks associated with coming back home. 
Anyone who frequently crosses the border is subject to questioning, regardless of their politics. According to Babaeva, the authorities believe that people who are traveling may be carrying sensitive information back and forth, and as a result, they are interrogated and asked where they are going, why, and for whom. 
As it seeks to lure its exiles back, the Belarusian authorities are also working to halt the outflow of citizens abroad. 
Ivan Kravtsov, the executive secretary of the Belarusian opposition’s Coordination Council, said Lukashenko is trying to limit the drain” of Belarusians abroad, and, more generally, is looking for ways to limit their mobility.” 
In Grodno, several school directors were fired because a high percentage of their pupils enrolled in universities abroad, while some students who graduated from university in Belarus were restricted from leaving the country, Kravtsov said. 
Many of the high-profile political activists are unlikely to be lured by Minsk’s promise that they will be spared from prosecution if they apply to the return commission” and apologize for having stood up to Lukashenko. 
According to Belarus’ Cyberpartisan activist group, only 16 people applied to the return commission” during the first five months of its work. Just two of those received a positive response and were required to be interviewed on state television like Pipkin. 
Kravtsov told The Moscow Times that these policies are better explained by economic rather than political factors. 
I don’t think anyone wants opposition leaders or activists to return,” Kravtsov said. Rather, [the departure] of highly skilled ... workers in the IT sector represents a loss in tax revenue, at minimum, and a general economic loss for the authorities.” 
In his televised interview, Pipkin, the doctor, stressed that there were more professional opportunities at home than in Germany, which is in line with the Belarusian authorities’ effort to dissuade skilled workers from leaving. 
The decree to halt the issuance of passports abroad may greatly complicate the lives of some who moved abroad after 2020. Authorities can fine those with an expired passport, even if they are abroad, and seize property if the fine is not paid on time. Traveling without a passport and living abroad may also prove challenging. 
The recent measure adopted by Lukashenko will also limit power of attorney, preventing the sale of cars and property from abroad through a proxy — a common practice among Belarusians in exile after 2020 to avoid having to return home. 
Belarusians in exile whose passports are set to expire have a few options. 
Some Belarusians can receive a second citizenship — such as a Polish one — if they have family roots there, Golovneva from Viasna noted. Others in Poland, Lithuania, and Estonia can obtain a travel document valid in the Schengen zone and gain international protection by getting a refugee travel document. 
Yet there is little coordination at the European level regarding Belarusian rights, and their situation becomes even more precarious outside the EU. In Georgia, for example, fears have emerged that the country may start deporting Belarusians with expired passports. 
Exiled opposition leader Svetlana Tikhanovskaya's team announced that she and her staff were working on creating a passport for New Belarus,” an alternative to the state-issued document. 
Kravtsov expressed skepticism that this passport would be treated as a valid document anytime soon, as passports are usually only recognized at the international level among sovereign entities. 
Lukashenko’s latest decree also raises the broader question of the rights of Belarusians abroad and their links to their homeland. 
By preventing Belarusians from leaving, luring others back in, restricting their rights and severing ties with those who are bound to exile due to political opposition, Minsk is waging a war against the Belarusian opposition presence abroad at multiple levels, activists and experts say. 
The result is a state that is a prison for some and an inaccessible homeland for others. 
Citizenship becomes useless,” Golovneva said, because the level of security that the state should provide you with when you are its citizen is not provided for people who are abroad.” 
Belarusian artist and political prisoner Ales Pushkin died early Tuesday at a hospital where he was urgently transferred from a prison facility, the Belarusian human rights center Viasna reported, citing the artist’s wife. 
The reasons for the 57-year-old dissident's hospitalization in intensive care as well as the circumstances surrounding his death remain unclear. 
An acclaimed artist and activist, Pushkin had staged an array of anti-government performances throughout his career. 
He actively took part in the country’s 2020-2021 protests against longtime ruler Alexander Lukashenko and appeared in a famous photograph showing him waving the white-red-white flag of democratic Belarus while facing a wall of security officers. 
Pushkin was arrested in March 2021 amid Lukashenko's sweeping crackdown on dissent in the wake of the 2020-2021 protests. 
The official pretext for Pushkin’s arrest was a painting depicting anti-Soviet Belarusian activist and poet Yevgeniy Zhihar displayed at an exhibition in Grodno. 
While Belarusian officials consider Zhihar to be a Nazi collaborator, Pushkin, according to the authorities, glorified” Zhihar by characterizing him as a person from the Belarusian resistance [movement and] a fighter with the Bolsheviks.” 
A court in the Belarusian capital Minsk found Pushkin guilty in March 2022 of desecrating state symbols and committing intentional actions aimed at the rehabilitation and justification of Nazism” and sentenced him to five years in a penal colony. 
Exiled opponents of Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko have found their position made even more vulnerable after Minsk rammed through a decree barring citizens from renewing their passports abroad. The exiled leader of Belarus’ democratic forces, Svetlana Tsikhanovskaya, accused Minsk of exacting revenge” on dissidents who fled the regime, and of trying to force them back home — where a lengthy prison sentence almost certainly awaits. 
The fact that this rogue regime is now denying its 3.5 million-strong diaspora basic consular services begs the question of why its embassies warrant representation on Western soil. The European Union, United States and Britain in particular are doing Belarusian nationals a massive disservice by allowing these glorified espionage dens to keep tabs on them. They have also yet to declare Lukashenko’s hired guns masquerading as ambassadors personae non-grate, as some have with Russian diplomats. 
Belarus is not a signatory to the 1954 and 1961 UN Conventions on Statelessness, nor does it recognize dual nationalities. By revoking their citizenship for loosely defined extremist conduct,” Lukashenko, already heavily sanctioned before the war due to his brutal suppression of protests against his 2020 re-election, hopes to pile more pressure onto opposition activists abroad. 
Lithuania will issue special foreigner passports” to exiled Belarusians, an interim measure that, while praiseworthy, may not fully buffer recipients against bureaucratic setbacks. Should other EU member states delay the recognition of these documents, its holders will end up facing short-term mobility constraints within the Schengen Area. Meanwhile, the Baltic states’ sizeable Belarusian community could find itself consigned to the fringes of society as its members are forced into alien status once their passports expire. 
As well as revenge, Minsk has an economic incentive to force emigrants to return. Over half a million people are thought to have left Belarus since 2020, many of whom are skilled workers. Such a loss of human capital may leave Minsk with little choice but to roll out a taxation scheme to recover lost revenue from these emigres. Providing Belarusian exiles with a path to citizenship abroad will therefore not only insulate genuine asylum claimants from reprisals but also from paying into the state coffers of Russia’s staunchest ally and, by extension, funding the war in Ukraine. 
Given his rumored plans to establish a dynastic political system in Belarus, Lukashenko will continue to trample on their civil liberties and subvert their democratic will as with the sham 2020 presidential election. Western powers, for their part, need to strengthen their support for Tikhanovskaya’s cause by supporting dissident media organizations and clamping down on companies that enable the regime. 
There is no easy solution to the issue undocumented Belarusian emigrants now find themselves in. Simply living in a foreign country while unable to access vital healthcare and baking services due to your expired passport is its own form of torture. Pro-democracy advocates who return to Belarus risk unjust hefty jail sentences for their peaceful overseas activism. The prominent Minsk-based human rights group Viasna estimates that there are 1,510 political prisoners in the country as of Sept. 20, including five of its own members. 
No matter the worthiness of their intentions, opposition figures calling for the creation of an entirely new national passport will find themselves faced with Brussels’ infamous bureaucracy. They will almost certainly face pushback from duplicitous actors — such as Hungary — with EU veto powers. Hungarian Foreign Minister Péter Szijjàrto even paid a visit to Minsk last February, in defiance of the bloc’s policy toward Europe’s last dictatorship.” Instead, human rights groups should lobby for an expedited path to naturalization in neighboring EU states where Belarusian exiles are heavily concentrated in order to ensure their protection. 
An inadequate response from the international community to Lukashenko’s latest move could see Moscow pursue a similar course of action toward the millions of Russian draft dodgers who sought refuge abroad after the Kremlin’s mobilization announcement last September. This makes the necessity of moving in to protect exiled Belarusians even greater. 
Lukashenko is now as reliant on black-market maneuvering to cling onto power as the heads of South American narco-states. The war in Ukraine has seen him creep closer to Moscow for economic and political support, going as far as to host Russian nuclear warheads on his country’s soil. The EU recognizes the Belarusian leader as being complicit in Russia’s war, making it even more urgent that they crack down on his regime and protect dissidents abroad. 
Minsk has rightly been spurned by its European neighbors. Poland, Lithuania and Latvia have curbed imports, militarized their borders with Belarus and advised their nationals against traveling there in an effort to deprive the regime of any residual income streams. Increasing international pressure against Belarus which takes aim at its ruling elite as well as any third parties used by Minsk to evade sanctions is the West’s best bet to unseat an autocratic thug who is intent on suppressing the will of his people. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
President Joe Biden has lifted restrictions on Ukraine using weapons supplied by the United States against targets on Russian territory, but only to defend the under-fire Kharkiv region, U.S. officials said Thursday. 
Biden has come under increasing pressure from a desperate Ukraine to ease his ban but had so far resisted amid fears it could drag NATO into direct conflict with Moscow. 
"The president recently directed his team to ensure that Ukraine is able to use U.S.-supplied weapons for counter-fire purposes in the Kharkiv region so Ukraine can hit back against Russian forces that are attacking them or preparing to attack them," a U.S. official said on condition of anonymity. 
"Our policy with respect to prohibiting the use of ATACMS or long-range strikes inside of Russia has not changed," the official said, referring to long-range missiles recently sent by Washington to Kyiv. 
A second U.S. official confirmed Biden's change of policy. 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has been pressing Kyiv's supporters — chiefly the United States — to allow it to use the longer-range weaponry they supply to hit targets on Russian soil. 
Some countries including Britain and the Netherlands say Kyiv has the right to use their weapons to strike military targets in Russia. 
U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken had hinted on Wednesday that Biden could change course. 
Blinken said the United States had "adapted and adjusted" as the "battlefield has changed," as he spoke to reporters on a visit to Moldova on the eve of NATO talks in Prague. 
Blinken, who traveled to Kyiv earlier this month to see the increasingly grave situation as Russia pushes forward towards Kharkiv, had been widely reported to be pressing Biden to ease the rules. 
Ahead of the NATO meeting, which starts with a dinner on Thursday, alliance chief Jens Stoltenberg said repeatedly it was time for members to reconsider those limits because they hampered Kyiv's ability to defend itself. 
French President Emmanuel Macron appeared to shift the dial forward on Tuesday when he said Ukraine should be allowed to "neutralize" bases in Russia used to launch strikes. 
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, however, remained less sure, saying Ukraine should act within the law — and Berlin had not supplied weapons that could hit Russia anyway. 
Pressure has also been mounting ahead of a series of key meetings in Europe in the coming weeks where Kyiv's plight will be in focus. 
Biden will attend ceremonies in France marking the World War II D-Day landings in early June where Ukraine's Zelensky will also be present. 
The U.S. president will also meet leaders of the world's top economies at the G7 summit in Italy. 
Japanese tiremaker Bridgestone said Monday it was seeking a local buyer for its business in Russia due to "general uncertainty and the ongoing supply issues" in that country. 
The company suspended manufacturing activities in Russia and exports to the country in March — shortly after Moscow invaded Ukraine — while freezing new investments, it said. 
Bridgestone said in a statement that it had "carefully considered a long-term solution in the interest of its employees, customers and suppliers." 
The process of completing a deal with a new buyer is expected to take several months, the company said. 
Bridgestone began its Russian operation in 1998 and has more than 1,000 employees in the country. 
It is the latest Japanese firm to announce an exit from the Russian market, after Nissan said this month that it would sell its Russian assets, including a plant in St. Petersburg, to the Russian government. 
Toyota also announced in September its decision to end production in Russia, citing supply chain problems. 
With State Duma elections fast approaching, Russia’s unpopular ruling party is once again turning to Vladimir Putin. 
United Russia has a problem. One recent poll puts the party’s support at 27% — the lowest level for the last 13 years. This is hardly ideal with elections to the State Duma taking place between 17 and 19 September. How will the party be able to achieve its aim of resecuring a constitutional majority with such dismal support? 
Enter Vladimir Putin. On Monday August 9, the party launched its federal-level public support headquarters”, during which it gave pride of place to a new slogan: We are Team Putin. We are United Russia.” The clear aim is to use Putin’s higher approval rating — 57% according to the same poll — to help detoxify United Russia’s brand. 
Or, rather, to make voters think of Putin instead of the party when voting. 
This is not the first time the party has tried to ride on Putin’s coattails. In 2007, for instance, the party’s campaign slogan was United Russia — Putin’s party”. In those parliamentary elections, Putin headed the party list, acting as a locomotive” — a high-profile electoral candidate who boosts votes but has no intention of taking up their seat, meaning a lower-level, less-well-known individual ends up taking their spot in the legislature. 
President Putin isn’t on United Russia’s party list this year. But the Team Putin” slogan has a very similar objective: to use the president’s popularity to boost that of the party of power”. It remains to be seen, however, whether the slogan will help to lift the party’s ratings or drag Putin’s down. 
'Team Navalny is dead, long live Team Putin' 
There is a certain irony in the phrase Team Putin”. This year has seen an unprecedented, multi-pronged attack by the authorities on Team Navalny”. 
And the similarities in language don’t stop there. The regional network of offices set up by Navalny and his team were referred to by the Russian word shtab — a headquarters (specifically, a military HQ). This is the same word used for United Russia’s new public support” structure. 
The overlap in language may well be coincidental. But the echoes will likely be heard by many – and reinforce the point that the political battle between the two teams is nowhere close to taking place on a level playing field. 
Indeed, the authorities appear intent on destroying rather than competing with Team Navalny — a point I explore, among other topics, in a forthcoming co-authored book on Alexei Navalny. 
Beyond language, the party seems to be colonising Navalny’s substantive interests, too. Aleksandr Khinshtein — State Duma deputy and deputy secretary of United Russia’s General Council — spread the word recently about an anti-corruption operation against a senior traffic policeman in Stavropol Krai. The parliamentarian shared images of the suspect’s gaudy home on Telegram — images of opulence often seen in videos summarising investigations by Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation. 
By calling out corruption by such officials, Khinshtein appeared to be suggesting that United Russia — referred to by Navalny as the party of crooks and thieves” — are not the villains. Others are to blame for what Dmitri Trenin has called the biggest vulnerability of modern Russia” — that is, the avarice of Russian officialdom. 
Beyond Putin 
Although United Russia’s rebrand is an attempt to improve perceptions before the September elections, the party’s performance will really depend on how well it does in races for the 225 Duma seats filled by first-past-the-post contests in geographical constituencies. 
Here, the party’s nationwide appeal matters much less than the backroom deals and administrative resources that can be used to raise the chances of United Russia successes. 
And it’s easy to see why these elections really matter to the Kremlin. The 8th convocation of the State Duma to be elected in September will sit until 2026 — and will, therefore, run across the next presidential election in 2024. 
As the most important elections before 2024, the Kremlin is keen to re-secure a constitutional majority in September — that is, for United Russia to win more than 300 out of 450 seats. 
This has both functional and symbolic importance for the Kremlin. Functionally, the Kremlin can continue to control the law-making process with the dominance of United Russia in the legislature — something the Presidential Administration has become used to since the mid-2000s. 
Symbolically, retaining control of the legislature is important for maintaining an image of invincibility” and stability — signalling that’s directed both to the population (including to further dispirit the opposition) and to those members of the elite with thoughts (however fleeting) of defection from the current political leadership. 
The importance of the elections also helps to explain the crescendo of voices from senior Russian officials warning of foreign interference”. 
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov has claimed that Western states are trying to disrupt the elections and call into doubt the results ahead of time. By creating an association between criticism of the electoral process with foreign interests, Lavrov and others can imply that those Russian nationals who do point out electoral violations are betraying their country. 
The Team Putin” rebrand is, therefore, merely one among a range of steps being taken in the run-up to the September vote. But it is an important indicator of the seriousness with which the Kremlin is taking things. Even elections with significant manipulation have their uncertainties — and, thus, pose threats to the sitting leadership. Who ever said elections in Russia were boring? 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
The daughter of Alexader Dugin, a hardline Russian ideologue close to President Vladimir Putin, has been killed in a car bombing on Moscow's outskirts, authorities said on Sunday. 
According to family members quoted by Russian media, Dugin — a vocal supporter of Kremlin's offensive in Ukraine — was the likely target of the blast as his daughter borrowed his car at the last minute. 
Daria Dugina was killed when a bomb placed in her Toyota Land Cruiser went off as she drove on a highway near the village of Bolshie Vyzyomy, some 40 kilometers (25 miles) outside Moscow, Russia's Investigative Committee said in a statement. 
Dugina, a journalist born in 1992 who herself openly supported the offensive, died at the scene and a homicide investigation has been opened, said the committee, which probes major crime cases in Russia. 
In July Britain put her on a list of sanctioned Russians for allegedly spreading online disinformation about Ukraine. 
Dugin, sometimes called "Putin's Rasputin" or "Putin's brain," is an outspoken Russian ultranationalist intellectual. 
He has long advocated the unification of Russian-speaking territories in a vast new Russian empire and wholeheartedly supported Moscow's operation in Ukraine. 
He was put on a Western sanctions list after Russia annexed Crimea in 2014, a move he also backed. 
The head of one of Ukraine's breakaway separatist regions blamed the blast on Kyiv authorities. 
"The Ukrainian regime terrorists tried to liquidate Alexander Dugin, but blew up his daughter," DNR chief Denis Pushilin wrote on Telegram. 
A Ukrainian presidential adviser, Mykhailo Podolyak denied that Kyiv authorities were behind the bombing. 
"Ukraine surely doesn't have anything to do with yesterday's explosion because we're not a criminal state," he said in televised remarks. 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova wrote on Telegram that "if the Ukrainian theory is confirmed... and it must be verified by competent authorities, it will amount to state terrorism on the part of the Kyiv regime." 
Russians have always like meat roasted on a spit. But it was never called shashlyk or kebabs. Oddly, today shashlyk is considered by zealots of Russian cuisine as something borrowed. But when you look more closely, the technique was used by our ancestors many centuries — if not millennia — ago. 
Roasting meat over a fire is the oldest way of cooking it. In Russia, meat cooked this way was called "spit-roasted." The Domostroi (1550s) contains several references to it. For example, in the section "Easter Meat" the authors give instructions for serving spit-roasted swans, beef tongue and lamb brisket. 
Ancient habits do not go away without a trace. And Sergey Drukovtsev's 1773 "Home Economics” recommends: 
"Although everyone knows how to roast meat, I want to mention various kinds of meat. Animal meat and game should be soaked in fresh milk or water for a day so that the meat becomes whiter and tastes better. Then lard the meat with pork fat as needed, roast on a spit, sprinkling game with lemon juice as it roasts. Serve the roasted meat with a variety of salads, asparagus, chicory, olives, different cucumbers in wine vinegar, sturgeon black grain caviar, salted plums and lemons..." 
And in "Russian Cookery" by Vasily Lyovshin in 1795-1798 we find the following: 
"Cranes are roasted on a spit with or without basting. The roasted crane can then be used to make a delicious and even more nutritious chowder when the crane is old and the meat does not become completely tender while roasting.” 
The Russian word шашлык (shashlyk) is a distortion of the Turkish word "shish," which means "spit" (the rod for roasting). Russians learned the word and process in the first half of the 19th century when they conducted military campaigns in the North Caucasus and Transcaucasia. 
The now-forgotten Russian writer Daniil Mordovtsev (1830-1905) wrote in his novel "By Iron and Blood" about the turbulent times of the conquest of the Caucasus under Yermolov: 
In the evening the whole city was illuminated. Everyone was happy about the safe end to the campaign. 
What lamb, brothers!” said a boy from the Apsheron Peninsula who was sitting by the fire and nibbling on a shashlyk bone. 
Tasty, eh?” smiled Uncle Nazarych. 
Uncle, it tastes so good I’d go off on another campaign again in the morning just to have this again tomorrow evening.” 
That’s right,” a third soldier said. It’s easier to fight when you know good food is waiting for you.” 
Romanov sheep, once the standard and most widespread breed in central Russia, were good for everything: meat, fur coats and wool. But this actually meant that the sheep weren’t the best in any category. No wonder the shashlyk from sheep bred for meat tasted fabulous to simple soldiers who’d grown up in villages. 
News of this shashlyk from the Caucasus began to reach the Russian capital cities. The famous cook Gerasim Stepanov published several cookbooks in the 1830s and 1840s. In 1837 he published a collection called, Experienced Chef with Additional Specialties in the Asian Table or Oriental Gastronomy.” One recipe was for "sheshlyk,” described as "a birch stick 2.5 arshins long, round, cleanly and smoothly planed. It is sharp at one end so that it a goat or lamb can easily be put on it.” So here he called the skewer sheshlyk,” not the meat. 
One of the most famous kinds of shashlyk before the 1917 Revolution was Kars-style shashlyk, which appeared in Russia after the capture of the Turkish fortress of Kars by Russian troops under the command of General Nikolai Muravyov in 1855. 
Above: Surrender of Kars, Crimean War, November 28, 1855” by Thomas Jones Barker. General of Infantry Nikolai Muravyov, left, accepts the surrender of Kars. In the center is British Colonel Sir William Fenwick Williams, commander of the Turkish fortress garrison. 
The siege lasted five months, so the Russian troops had time to get to know the local culinary traditions. The area around Kars was inhabited mainly by Armenians, and they made shashlyk from large pieces of meat. They used mainly lamb loin along with rump steaks, which were quite fatty and made the shashlyk juicy. 
By the end of the 19th century in the Russia, culinary experts had a good idea of why roasted meat was so popular and the best way to roast it. "How to Stew, Roast and Fry Deliciously and Cheaply" was the name of the book published in Moscow in 1894, where shashlyk was already the subject of a separate analysis: 
"The best way to roast meat without any utensils is on a spit. The flavor of meat and poultry prepared this way is incomparably better than meat fried in a pan or especially stewed in a pot. The fame of shashlyk comes from the fact that when roasting meat on a spit, the heat from the coals quickly seals the meat and immediately forms a crust, preventing the juice from flowing out, so it remains entirely in the meat. Whereas in other ways of frying, the best part of the meat seeps out and becomes gravy.” 
The first recipes for shashlyk from the Caucasus adapted for the Russian public began to appear. For example, here’s a recipe from I. A. Ivanova's book "A Gift Cookbook For Young Housewives” (1899): 
"Cut slices of very fat lamb, rub it with salt, pepper and finely chopped onions, impale the pieces on a metal rod, roast over the fire, constantly turning. When it is done, put it on a dish and sprinkle it with well-boiled rice until crumbly." 
But, of course, roasting meat on a skewer wasn’t adopted into Russian cuisine from unknown nomads somewhere. It was the very first way to prepare meat and other food in our cuisine. And it hasn’t lost its appeal over the past centuries and millennia. 
Unfortunately, given Russian climatic conditions, this is only a summer pleasure enjoyed out in nature. But for people who can’t get away to a dacha there is a way to have the same feeling of standing in the heat of the fire, swatting mosquitoes and salivating at the scent of roasting meat. We can’t promise mosquitoes, but delicious meat is guaranteed. 
Oven Kebabs 
Instructions 
Choose your meat — we usually buy pork shoulder — and make sure you have a lot of onions. You will also need soy sauce, vegetable oil, pepper and a little sugar, preferably brown cane sugar. 
Preheat the oven to 220°C / 425°F. Cut the meat in pieces as you usually would for kebabs. Slice the onions into large rings. Put the meat and onion in a bowl 
Get a separate bowl for the soy sauce and oil. You'll need enough to moisten all the meat. You don't need a lot of oil — just enough to baste each piece. No salt: the soy sauce is salty enough. 
Mix the soy sauce, oil, pepper in the bowl; add a pinch of sugar. Stir until it all dissolves. The sugar gives the crusty caramelization; the oil keeps the kebabs juicy. Then pour the mixture over the meat and onions and mix everything thoroughly with your hands. Leave for half an hour to marinate. 
Then put the meat and onions on a baking tray and place in the oven for about 15-20 minutes. You will see when the meat has the right golden color, when it sizzles and smells great. If necessary, give the pieces a stir or turn them over. 
Serve kitchen kebabs with a vegetable salad, just like outdoors by the grill. 
Four in ten migrant workers became unemployed during the crisis. 
July 8, 2020 
Migrant workers were almost twice as likely as Russians to lose their jobs during the coronavirus pandemic, new research has found. 
Some 40% of Central Asian migrant workers in Russia reported that they were permanently laid off during the quarantine period, according to a survey conducted by the Russian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (Ranepa), while 23% of Russians said the same. 
Adding those who kept their jobs, but were put on unpaid leave during Russia’s non-working period — from late March until mid-May — a total of 75% of Central Asian migrants were not working at the height of the pandemic, compared to 48% of Russians. 
Amid widespread job losses and the cancellation of most international flights, migrants took to waiting at airports for the chance to get a ticket on a special repatriation flight, or queueing outside embassies in central Moscow for help in finding a way back home. 
The survey also revealed that migrant workers were more aware of the danger of the coronavirus than locals,” and more likely to agree with the government’s policies to contain the spread, despite the high number of job losses. 
The findings dispel the myth that migrants took the virus less seriously than Russians, Ranepa researcher Evgeniy Varshavyer said, referring to a narrative which took hold earlier in the crisis. 
Migrant workers were also more likely to seek medical help if they thought they had Covid-19 symptoms — 75% called a doctor, compared to 55% of Russians — and more strongly disagreed with the notion that the coronavirus was no more deadly than a typical winter flu. 
Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has named another relative to a high-level government post in the southern Russian republic that enjoys federal subsidies while maintaining relative autonomy from Moscow, state media reported Tuesday. 
Kadyrov’s third cousin Khas-Magomed Kadyrov, 30, follows in the footsteps of two Kadyrov daughters in their early 20s as well as two nephews and a foster brother who have all been appointed to public office within the past year. 
Kadyrov, 44, noted [Khas-Magomed’s] achievements in the development of the city of Argun” at a cabinet reshuffle Monday where he tapped his cousin as mayor of the Chechen capital Grozny. 
Independent Russian media reported that Argun was the site of gay detention centers set up by Chechen authorities in 2017 during the region’s alleged LGBT purges. 
Grozny city councillors approved Kadyrov’s choice as acting mayor on Tuesday, according to the state-run TASS news agency. 
The Chechen leader himself had just turned 30 when President Vladimir Putin appointed him as the region’s head in 2007. He has since worked to stamp out an Islamist rebellion and other forms of dissent using heavy-handed tacticts, including alleged widespread torture and killings. 
A 2018 analysis by the BBC’s Russian-language service found that nearly one in three Chechen officials were Kadyrov’s relatives while one in five were his fellow villagers and one out of 10 his friends. 
Kadyrov is widely believed to enjoy free rein from the Kremlin in exchange for loyalty while Moscow turns a blind eye to the documented human rights abuses in the majority-Muslim region. 
Chechen authorities have detained dozens of relatives of two gay men who were forcibly returned to the southern Russian region to face terrorism charges, a rights group told the independent Dozhd broadcaster Wednesday. 
The Moscow-based LGBT Network rights group said Salekh Magamadov, 20, and Ismail Isayev, 18, fled Chechnya last year but were arrested and returned in February on accusations of aiding an illegal armed group. The brothers face up to 15 years in prison if convicted on the charges that rights activists call fabricated. 
The LGBT Network told Dozhd that 20 of Magamadov and Isayev’s relatives were held in an unknown location for two hours Tuesday as police sought the whereabouts of the men’s parents. 
Magamadov and Isayev’s parents fled the republic of Chechnya after police forced their father to waive his right to counsel, Dozhd reported. 
The men’s mother Zara Magamadova had filmed an appeal to Russia’s human rights commissioner last week seeking her sons’ release and accusing the authorities of fabricating” the legal case against them. 
I’m asking anyone who can help, please help me see my sons alive and in good health,” she said. 
Magamadov and Isayev’s 20 relatives were released overnight, according to the Caucasus Knot news website. 
Europe’s top human rights court ordered Russia last month to grant relatives, lawyers and doctors access to Isayev and Magamadov. 
The LGBT Network said authorities accused the men of operating a social media channel critical of government officials and tortured them in 2020 because of their sexual orientation. 
Chechnya's strongman leader Ramzan Kadyrov, who has faced years of media investigations into the imprisonment and torture of homosexuals in secret prisons, has claimed that his region is exclusively heterosexual. 
Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov has been living with a diagnosis of pancreatic necrosis for more than five years, the independent news website Novaya Gazeta Europe reported Monday, citing anonymous sources at the Moscow presidential hospital where he was allegedly treated. 
His deteriorating condition has reportedly prompted the Kremlin to start working on a succession plan to maintain stability in the North Caucasus republic. 
Unverified claims circulating on social media last fall said that Kadyrov was suffering from kidney problems, prompting him to appear in carefully orchestrated videos in an attempt to dispel the rumors. 
According to Novaya Gazeta Europe, doctors initially diagnosed Kadyrov with acute pancreatic necrosis — a serious condition that can lead to death — in January 2019. 
The following month, Kadyrov announced via decree that he had briefly ceded powers to the regional parliament speaker for the period of my temporary disability” without disclosing his illness. He issued another decree on a similarly brief transfer of power in January 2020. 
Novaya Gazeta Europe reported that Kadyrov’s health started rapidly deteriorating in the spring of 2022, forcing him to miss a number of televised appearances and raising suspicion about his periodic absence from the public eye. 
In September 2023, Novaya Europe said Kadyrov was hospitalized at Moscow's elite Central Clinical Hospital for about a month with acute pulmonary failure after overdosing on sleeping pills that reportedly helped him relieve the pain. 
Though doctors were able to stabilize his respiratory function at the time, MRI findings reportedly led Kadyrov’s family to conclude that he would not be able to make a full recovery. 
The old leader will no longer be there, the illness will seriously affect him. Even if he recovers now, he’ll be neither alive nor dead,” Novaya Europe quoted a source close to Kadyrov ally Adam Delimkhanov as saying. 
It was around that time that the Kremlin started working on a succession plan in case of Kadyrov’s passing, according to Novaya Europe. 
Hours after the report’s publication, Kadyrov’s channel on the Telegram messaging app shared a 4-minute video of the Chechen leader discussing his region’s role in the war on Ukraine. The video cuts in and out of close-up shots of Kadyrov, who does not move his body and can be heard speaking with difficulty. 
Officials have not commented on Novaya Gazeta Europe's report and its details could not be independently verified. 
Kadyrov has ruled Chechnya, a Russian region in the North Caucasus that was devastated by two bloody wars between Moscow and separatist forces in the 1990s and early 2000s, with an iron fist since Putin formally appointed him in 2007. 
Critics have accused Kadyrov of grave human rights abuses, including systemic torture and extrajudicial killings. 
The Kremlin said Thursday that the reason civilians were suffering from blackouts in Ukraine was Kyiv's refusal to negotiate with Moscow and not missile strikes launched by Russian forces. 
"The unwillingness of the Ukrainian side to settle the problem, to start negotiations, its refusal to seek common ground, this is their consequence," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said, referring to hardship stemming from blackouts in Ukraine caused by Russian missile attacks. 
Ukrainian authorities have warned of "difficult" days ahead as winter sets in. 
With the energy infrastructure still reeling from Russian strikes, Kyiv saw its first snow of the season fall on Thursday. 
"The special military operation is continuing, it does not depend on weather conditions," Peskov said. 
He said the Russian armed forces targeted "infrastructure directly or indirectly related to the Ukrainian armed forces." 
The largest wave of Russian missiles on cities across Ukraine earlier this week briefly cut power to 7 million homes. 
The commander of an elite Russian airborne unit has been killed in Ukraine, a Kremlin-backed military official in eastern Ukraine's Donetsk region said Sunday. 
Alexander Khodakovsky, who serves as deputy national guard commander of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic, announced the death of Russian Colonel Andrei Kondrashkin on the messaging app Telegram, adding that the killed colonel headed the 31st Guards Air Assault Brigade. 
Khodakovsky did not disclose the circumstances of the airborne commander's death. 
However, Yurii Butusov, founder of Ukraine’s censor.net news website, said Kondrashkin died while trying to repel a Ukrainian attack near the captured town of Bakhmut. 
Without disclosing his sources, Butusov said Ukrainian assault forces had breached the defenses of Kondrashkin’s unit in the village of Andriivka, located near the key frontline town of Bakhmut. 
The elimination of one of Russia’s strike formations’ commanders is a serious achievement,” Butusov wrote on Telegram. 
Ukraine’s military said it had retaken Andriivka last week, while Russia’s Defense Ministry maintained that Kyiv was trying in vain to dislodge Russian troops” from the village. 
Kondrashkin is at least the second commander of the 31st Guards Air Assault Brigade to be killed in Ukraine since the February 2022 invasion. 
His predecessor, Colonel Sergei Karasev, was among the dozens of the unit’s paratroopers who died in the first few days of the war when it tried and failed to capture the town of Hostomel outside Kyiv. 
Nearly 2,000 Russian paratroopers, including 340 officers, have died in the nearly 19-month invasion of Ukraine, according to a tally by the independent outlets Mediazona and BBC’s Russian-language service. 
Moscow has been reluctant to release official casualty figures, leaving independent media to collect data from the disparate local media reports, obituaries, and cemeteries. 
Russia’s independent news outlet Sota, citing anonymous sources, said Kondrashkin commanded the 31st brigade for just a few days.” 
As COP27 draws to a close, we take another deep dive into the impact of Russia’s war against Ukraine on climate negotiations and climate action in general. What were Moscow's priorities this year? How has the Russian delegation been treated by the rest of the climate community at COP27? Maria Pastukhova, a senior policy analyst at climate think tank E3G, and Anna Korppoo, a research professor from the Fridtjof Nansens Institute in Norway, discuss these questions and more. 
Russians’ income from business activity has fallen to a century low. 
Aug. 3, 2020 
Russians’ earnings from business activity crashed to their lowest level this century during the second quarter as the coronavirus pandemic battered the country’s small and medium-sized businesses. 
Data from Russia’s federal statistics service Rosstat showed that just 3.5% of all household income came from so-called ‘entrepreneurial activity,’ a classification which covers money earned by small business owners as well as some rental income and other royalties. The share of such earnings in the overall income mix was down from 5.9% in the first quarter of the year, setting a new record for the lowest level ever seen since data started being published in 2000, news site RBC reported. 
The fall amounts to a 300 billion ruble ($4 billion) hit to Russia’s entrepreneurs and business owners, who are still reeling from the pandemic and have frequently complained about insufficient support from the Kremlin. 
The pandemic has accelerated a long-term decline in business earnings, which contributed as much as one in every seven rubles earned by Russians at the start of the century. 
Meanwhile, welfare payments reached their highest ever share of income during the quarter, jumping to 21.8%, as the Kremlin dished out bonus payments to medical staff and special payments to families with young children at the height of the pandemic. 
More than 40% of Russians say their income has fallen since the start of the coronavirus outbreak. As the government exerted heavy pressure on firms not to fire staff, using both threats of increased labor inspections and incentives such as cheap loans which can be written off if businesses maintain their headcount at 90% of pre-crisis levels, companies have largely resisted mass layoffs and instead cut back staff hours, wages and bonus payments. 
We get a regional perspective on what’s at stake at the COP26 with Dr. Georgy Safonov. Georgy is an energy expert with many years of experience working on climate policy in our region of interest. He has also attended many of the recent international climate conferences. 
Cow-Belle of the Ball: Bovine Beauty Contest Held in Russia's Far East 
Nov 22, 2023 - 06:29 pm 
A three-year-old cow named Manik has won a national cattle beauty contest organized by an arts organization in Russia's republic of Sakha. Manik beat 11 competitors to win 10,000 rubles for her owner. Cattle of any gender were permitted to participate in the photo contest, which asked contenders to use close-up photos, unusual angles, and a creative approach in their submissions. The pageant, which began in 2019 in an effort to bring attention to agricultural issues in Russia and encourage gentle treatment of cattle, has become an annual event: 
Three-year-old Manik took first place. 
"AARTYK" House of Folk Art 
Twelve-year-old Kharachaas won the people's choice award. 
"AARTYK" House of Folk Art 
The contest has been held online since the Covid-19 pandemic, allowing for participants from all over Russia. 
"AARTYK" House of Folk Art 
Some costumes alluded to current events, like this militaristic cow. 
"AARTYK" House of Folk Art 
Others highlighted the diversity of Russian textiles and costumes. 
The threat of flooding in Russia’s Ural Mountains has shifted from the town of Orsk to neighboring cities and regions, authorities said Tuesday. 
Thousands have been forced to evacuate Orsk this week as the Ural River swelled. The floodwaters are now reaching dangerous levels in the main city of Orenburg, with the peak of the flood expected on Wednesday. 
Orsk Mayor Vasily Kozupitsa said water levels in the Ural River had fallen by 39 centimeters to 928 centimeters Tuesday, allowing some residents of the most flood-stricken neighborhoods to return home. 
He added that access to hot and cold water was gradually being restored, while emergency officials told state media that electricity supplies were also being phased in. 
Sergei Salmin, the mayor of Orenburg, a city of 560,000 people, warned of an unprecedented” peak of the flood. Eight villages near Orenburg faced critical” situations as the river had risen by 25 centimeters over the last 24 hours. 
Regional police said fake charities soliciting false donations for relief efforts have sprung up, and more than 900 additional police officers have been deployed to prevent looting. Residents complained of looting during protests against the local administration on Monday. 
Rivers in western Siberia’s Kurgan and Tyumen regions are also swelling. 
In Kurgan, a city near Kazakhstan — where more than 86,000 people have been evacuated — authorities said Tuesday that 689 people have been evacuated from the overflowing Tobol river. 
The mayor's office in Kurgan, a city of around 300,000 people, said the floods could reach the local airport. 
Russia declared regionwide states of emergency in the Orenburg, Tyumen and Kurgan regions. 
The Kremlin said Tuesday that the Kurgan and Tyumen regions face difficult days ahead.” 
There’s a lot of water coming,” spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. 
President Vladimir Putin is still not planning to visit the Orenburg region, Peskov said, adding that the Russian leader is being regularly updated on the crisis and is constantly dealing with these issues throughout the day.” 
On 25 January, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan suffered from a mysterious series of electricity power outages, plunging the region into chaos. For several hours, skiers lay perched on lifts and planes grounded while traffic lights, heating district and tap water pumps ran idle. The incident comes after Kazakhstan, the world’s second largest bitcoin producer, faced a similar outage in November 2021. The culprit according to the government? Unregistered cryptocurrency miners. While the exact cause of the 25 January power shortage has yet to be pinpointed, it is now clear that crypto-mining is piling pressure on creaking Soviet energy infrastructure. Join us as we discuss the carbon footprint of crypto in Central Asia and the rest of Eurasia. Our reporter Stephen Bland talks to residents and experts about the industry’s impact on Kazakhstan, while Boris Schneider asks economist and campaigner Alex de Vries whether there can ever be such a thing as green crypto-mining. We’ll also be bringing you the latest climate headlines from our region at the end of the episode. 
At least 9,311 Russian soldiers have died since Russia launched its invasion of Ukraine nine months ago, according to an independent investigation conducted jointly by the BBC Russian Service and independent Russian news outlet MediaZona. 
The death toll, which was published by the BBC on Friday, only includes officially confirmed fatalities, meaning that the true number of Russia’s losses in the conflict to date could be as much as twice that number, the U.K. public broadcaster said. 
The number of Russia’s irreversible losses, a figure that includes the severely injured and the missing, could be as high as 100,000 people, the BBC said. 
Among those included in the count by the BBC are 326 men called up during Russia’s recent mobilization drive. At least 35 of them died before they could be deployed to the frontlines most often due to heart problems, accidents or alcohol abuse,” the report said. 
The Russian army reportedly sustained particularly heavy losses among its top echelons. Army officers make up over 15% of the overall death toll, while the count also includes four generals, 47 colonels and 101 military pilots. 
Infantry and airborne forces sustained the highest number of losses since the beginning of the war, closely followed by so-called volunteer battalions — regional militias made up of civilian volunteers — which have collectively lost as many as 1,050 servicemen. 
The investigation showed that the largest number of dead servicemen came from southern Russia’s Krasnodar region, followed by the Siberian republic of Buryatia and the North Caucasus republic of Dagestan. 
By contrast, Moscow, which is home to nearly 9% of the country’s population, has lost just 50 residents in the war, or just 0.5% of the total. 
This month, several senior officials in Russia's republic of Chechnya have been reshuffled or replaced. Meanwhile, strongman ruler Ramzan Kadyrov's children have been appointed to a number of government posts. Overshadowing all this are reports that Kadyrov, 47, is gravely ill, fueling rumors about his ability to rule and the future of the republic, which fought two separatist wars against Moscow in the 1990s and 2000s. 
Harold Chambers, an analyst focusing on nationalism, conflict and security in the North Caucasus, joins us to explain what it all means. 
Russia on the Record is a podcast where Moscow Times journalists, independent experts and ordinary Russians reflect, analyze and explain what’s going on in Russia right now. 
Over 1,000 roe deer have invaded the Omsk region in western Siberia due to abnormal weather, with around 100 animals wandering in the city of Omsk, the region's deputy natural resources minister told local television Monday. 
Icy rains in late November, which were followed by severe frosts, could have triggered the sudden migration of the deer, which have never been seen in the city in such numbers before, Sergei Palaguta said. 
Omsk residents have regularly encountered roe deer in recent weeks, sharing videos and photos online of wild animals running through snow-covered city streets. 
Unfamiliar with the urban environment, frightened animals have fallen victim to cars and encountered artificial obstacles. Last week, the Russian National Guard (Rosgvardia) rescued a roe deer after it got stuck in a metal fence. 
Annual roe deer migration in the Omsk region has stretched on longer than normal this year due to an unusually warm and long autumn coupled with a lack of snow, the local Department of Wildlife Protection said. 
Palaguta pointed to the region's lack of wildlife crossings which could have allowed animals to safely navigate across roads. Instead, two railway branches acted as a kind of trap, directing migrating roe deer herds toward the city of Omsk. 
"[In the suburbs], a considerable number of roe deer have accumulated in the fields, and inevitably, they began searching for exits from this formed bottleneck, with some of them entering the city," the official said. 
In mid-December, large numbers of roe deer were seen in the Samara region coming out to the sown fields in search of food as temperatures fell to minus 25 degrees Celsius. 
The high-profile arrest of Deputy Defense Minister Timur Ivanov reflects the struggle for resources and influence within Russia's elite as Putin’s new presidential term begins. 
The arrest of a senior defense official on bribery suspicions signals Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu’s diminishing status and the rising influence of the security services, two sources in the Russian government and a person close to the Kremlin told The Moscow Times. 
All spoke on condition of anonymity due to the sensitivity of the topic. 
Shoigu, a longtime ally of President Vladimir Putin, has withstood criticism from pro-war hawks and a mutiny by the Wagner mercenary group during the first two years of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
The high-profile arrest of his deputy Timur Ivanov — whose immense wealth and lavish lifestyle were no secret — reflects the struggle for resources and influence within Russia's elite as Putin’s new presidential term begins, The Moscow Times’ sources said. 
First of all, it's market redistribution,” a senior government official told The Moscow Times. But the public blow to the Shoigu camp is also very serious. Ivanov supervised not just construction, but military contracts — this is the biggest and most delicious.” 
Ivanov, who was detained in his office Tuesday night on suspicion of taking a bribe of at least 1 million rubles (about $10,500) and remanded by a Moscow court on Wednesday, is seen as a close ally of Shoigu. 
In his role overseeing construction, housing and property management for the Armed Forces, he frequently visited Russian-occupied Ukrainian territories throughout the full-scale invasion. 
He made several inspections of the Mariupol apartment complex that Putin visited during his only trip to the occupied city. 
A few months before Putin’s visit, Ivanov and Denis Pushilin, the Moscow-installed head of occupied Donetsk, visited the complex’s construction site, heaping praise on the new buildings surrounded by houses that were destroyed during Russia’s siege of the city. 
The two blamed the destruction on neo-Nazis,” a term commonly used by Russian officials to refer to Ukrainian officials and military. 
In addition, Ivanov oversaw the construction of a water pipeline from the Don River to the Seversky Donets-Donbas Canal, which Russia used to supply water to occupied Donetsk and Luhansk. He also supervised the construction of 90% of the defenses on the line of contact between the Ukrainian and Russian militaries. 
In an interview with the Defense Ministry-run TV channel Zvezda, Ivanov boasted of his ability to quickly construct housing and social and military facilities. The main secret, he said, is the ability to motivate builders. 
Comrades, come on, let’s get together and build better than everyone else! It works,” Ivanov said. 
The luxurious lifestyle enjoyed by Ivanov and his family was well-known to Russia’s security services and political elite. 
An investigation by late Putin critic Alexei Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK) revealed the glamorous life of Ivanov, who liked to celebrate his birthday in St. Tropez and party with other high-ranking Russian officials and businessmen. 
There were many real abuses in terms of the management of army property. But it was worth arresting him for them years ago," a source close to the Defense Ministry told The Moscow Times. 
That the arrest comes ahead of Putin’s inauguration to a fifth presidential term and subsequent formation of a new government says more about political reasons and Sergei Shoigu’s weakening position” than it does about Ivanov himself, the source added. 
The Moscow Times’ sources agreed that Ivanov’s arrest would not affect the Russian army’s ability to continue its invasion of Ukraine, because he had nothing to do with military affairs.” 
In all likelihood, this will not prevent Sergei Shoigu from retaining his position in the new government either,” the Russian official said. But his position will be noticeably weakened.” 
In general, what happened is also in Putin's interests. He never lets any group get too strong. And this will be presented to the public as a fight against corruption,” another Russian official said. 
The Federal Security Service (FSB) will likely use the deputy minister’s arrest to collect compromising information on the entire Defense Ministry, including its leader, expert Andrei Soldatov told The Moscow Times. 
Ivanov will now testify against everyone,” Soldatov said. This is usually a form of control, not repression. This is how the Kremlin regime solves the task of maintaining manageability — as they understand it.” 
Denmark’s Foreign Minister said Ukraine would be allowed to attack targets inside Russia with F-16 fighter jets it sends as part of military support for Kyiv, Ukrainian media reported Thursday. 
The short answer is yes,” Danish Foreign Minister Lars Lokke Rasmussen was quoted as saying in Brussels by the news website European Pravda when asked whether Ukrainian pilots would be allowed to strike targets on Russian territory with the U.S.-made warplanes. 
We made it clear from the very beginning… that this is part of self-defense so that it would also be possible to attack military targets on the aggressor’s territory,” Rasmussen added. 
He clarified, however, that this is not a carte blanche for Ukraine to use F-16s to launch indiscriminate attacks into Russia,” according to the Danish daily Kristeligt Dagblad. 
We’re talking about the possibility of weakening the aggressor by taking out military installations on Russian territory,” Rasmussen told reporters. 
On Monday, NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg urged Washington and its allies to drop restrictions on how Ukraine uses Western-supplied weapons despite concerns Putin may use nuclear weapons in response. 
Besides Denmark, the Netherlands, Norway and Belgium have committed to sending F-16s to Ukraine. 
Reuters cited an anonymous high-ranking Ukrainian military source as saying earlier this month that the first F-16s would arrive sometime between June and July. 
Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said last year that F-16 deliveries to Ukraine would be interpreted as a nuclear” threat to Moscow because of the aircraft’s ability to carry nuclear weapons. 
Russia’s Ambassador in Copenhagen Vladimir Barbin echoed the nuclear threat Thursday, which Danish Foreign Minister Rasmussen dismissed as part of a tough rhetoric in Russia’s propaganda war.” 
President Vladimir Putin hailed Russia and China’s growing trade ties last week on his first foreign visit since winning re-election. 
According to the Russian leader, while a turnover of $100 billion in bilateral trade between Moscow and Beijing was considered a major success a few years ago, this figure now exceeds $200 billion. 
Chinese data shows $240 billion, to be more precise. And we can go even further,” he boasted at the opening of the Russian-Chinese Expo in Harbin last week. 
Earlier in Beijing, Putin told Chinese leader Xi Jinping how "timely" their decision to handle bilateral trade in national currencies was. 
"Today, 90% of all payments are already made in rubles and yuan," Putin said, noting that this measure has helped boost Russia-China trade operations. 
Trade turnover between the two countries has indeed significantly expanded since the start of Russia's 2022 invasion of Ukraine, which sparked sanctions that sought to block Moscow's technological imports from the West. 
But after the U.S. in December 2023 introduced restrictions on foreign banks that conduct significant transactions or provide services that support Russia's war machine, the prospects are less rosy. 
Nearly any item from electronics to car parts can now be considered a dual-use product. As a result, Chinese banks have become significantly more cautious when dealing with transactions from Russia — threatening the trading relationship that Russia’s economy depends on. 
Russia-China trade partnership 
While Russia mainly exports raw materials to China, the bulk of what goes in the other direction is electronics, equipment and machinery. 
In 2022, Russia’s imports from China surged due to Western sanctions and the realignment of trade routes as part of Moscow's pivot to the East.” Russia's imports of Chinese electronics and machinery that year increased by 15-20% on average compared to 2021, as is evident from the countries' customs statistics. This trend intensified even more in 2023, with imports of these goods growing another 20-25% year-on-year. 
At the same time, the share of Chinese products in Russia's overall machinery and electronics imports has also grown significantly in the last two years. 
In 2022, China accounted for approximately 55-60% of Russia’s imports in this category. This figure grew further in 2023, reaching about 65-70%. Media reports, citing sources in the U.S. presidential administration, said that Russia received about 90% of its microelectronics from China in 2023. 
"Over the past two years, China has become Russia’s primary trading partner and continues to import Russian commodities, especially oil,” Kimberly Donovan, the director of the Economic Statecraft Initiative within the Atlantic Council’s GeoEconomics Center, said ahead of Putin's state visit to China this month. 
The two countries are trading in Chinese yuan and Russian rubles, which allows them to circumvent Western sanctions because the transactions are taking place outside of the U.S. dollar, euro and other Group of Seven (G7) sanctions coalition currencies,” the expert added. 
Trading in yuan and rubles may have helped avoid Western sanctions until recently. But it is evident that Washington’s December 2023 restrictions have if not closed, then at least significantly limited this window of opportunity. 
Signs of decline 
Since the beginning of 2024, the upward trend of imports has started to reverse. According to Chinese customs data, the country's exports to Russia fell for the first time since the start of the war in Ukraine, declining by nearly 16% in March 2024 compared to the same period last year. The drop came after major Chinese banks started restricting payments from Russian banks. 
The situation with payments from Russia to China deteriorated sharply at the end of March, with about 80% of transactions returned, an anonymous source in the Russian business community told the Izvestia newspaper. 
The difficulties are mainly with China's largest banks which are in plain sight of U.S. regulators. While small financial organizations are still working with Russia, they lack the capacity to process a substantial volume of transactions, the source said. 
And if before there were problems with transactions in U.S. dollars, now there are difficulties with payments in yuan — a notable development considering Putin’s boasts that nearly all transactions between Russia and China are now conducted in national currencies. 
Since sending yuan to China has become a major problem, the import of equipment was very difficult in April and is unlikely to improve in May, a source in the Russian business community told Izvestia. 
An entrepreneur from Izhevsk, hometown of the Kalashnikov rifle manufacturer, who is purchasing equipment for machine tools in China, told the Vedomosti business newspaper that initially, in December, a Chinese bank he was working with notified him it was ceasing payments for a specific list of goods, the import of which into Russia is prohibited by Western sanctions. 
However, several weeks later, a bank manager announced they were completely canceling settlements with Russia regardless of the product or the payment currency. 
Another of Vedomosti’s sources noted that in this case, making settlements does not depend on the payment system — transactions have been discontinued not only through SWIFT but also through the Russian SPFS and the Chinese CIPS. 
"Even if the movement of payments through national systems is not visible to Americans or Europeans, all of this is clearly reflected in the reporting that the bank's Western counterparts may demand," he told the paper. 
Is there a solution? 
Currently, only the Shanghai branch of Russian state lender VTB is operating without failures, as it is the only Russian bank with a financial license to conduct banking operations in China, it says on its website. Other Russian banks are still unable or unwilling to open branches in the country. This leaves businesses little options to conduct transactions. 
Ahead of Putin's state visit to Beijing, observers expected the issue of financial transactions to be one of the key points of his agenda during talks with his Chinese counterpart. Yet it is unclear whether the matter was actually resolved or even raised. 
"First of all, issues related to settlements are discussed at the level of participants of economic activity. Solutions are possible, they are there. Of course, they should be supported at the state level in one way or another. I hope this will be the case," Putin said after the talks. 
Meanwhile, Kirill Dmitriev, the CEO of the Russian Direct Investment Fund (RDIF), has proposed using the BRICS economic bloc, which Russia is chairing this year, as a solution to help boost Russian-Chinese cooperation. 
The RDIF, as part of Moscow's chairmanship, will consider opportunities for creating a joint financial and investment infrastructure among the BRICS countries, including both the system of mutual settlements and joint investment platforms, Dmitriev said at a news conference in China. 
He did not specify when this initiative could become operational, and how exactly it would work with transactions in national currencies, meaning that payments to China — as well as imports from it — will continue to be difficult. 
Experts say the floods, which have caught the authorities off-guard and left many people to fend for themselves, are just a preview of what is yet to come in the climate crisis. 
ORENBURG REGION, Russia – Russia’s southern Orenburg region has been grappling with its worst flooding in decades, with 55 cities and towns fully or partially flooded and thousands evacuated in an unprecedented emergency. 
Footage from the cities of Orsk and Orenburg showed entire neighborhoods submerged underwater, with volunteers and emergency workers on inflatable dinghies rescuing people and animals trapped in their homes. 
Experts say the floods, which have caught the authorities off-guard and left many people to fend for themselves, are just the beginning of what is yet to come in the climate crisis. 
The scale of the flood is colossal. Many areas, many houses are underwater,” said Oleg, a resident of Orsk, the Ural Mountains city hardest hit by the disaster. 
We need to rebuild and keep rebuilding. I think it will take a lot of time, but [it will be possible] if the authorities help people,” he told The Moscow Times. 
In Orenburg, the regional capital, the river embankment, several neighborhoods and a few settlements outside the city have been submerged since the end of last week. 
Despite days of round-the-clock rescue efforts, there is still no end in sight to the crisis. Hydrologists expect the Ural River to rise even higher in Orenburg on Wednesday, and the Kremlin said that the neighboring Kurgan and Tyumen regions face difficult days ahead.” 
Russia on Sunday declared a federal state of emergency in the Orenburg region, a move that allows federal forces to get involved in efforts to combat the flooding. 
According to a document obtained by The Moscow Times' Russian service, the Emergency Situations Ministry had known about the impending severe flooding in the Orenburg region a month prior but failed to take preventive steps to mitigate the damage. 
Multiple failures 
On the streets of Orsk, sirens can be heard wailing and fire trucks are on constant patrol. 
As evacuation continues day and night, assisted by military and volunteers who arrived at the scene, residents from flooded zones are placed in temporary accommodation centers. 
According to authorities, almost 7,000 houses were submerged in Orsk over three days and about 2,500 people, including 704 children, were evacuated. 
Russia’s Construction Ministry estimates that the total damages to homes could exceed 21 billion rubles ($226 million). 
The flooding is believed to have been triggered by intense snowmelt and rainfall amid abnormally warm spring weather that caused the Ural River to rise and breach a protective dam in at least three places. 
The first major burst late Friday night submerged the city’s Old Town district, with only the rooftops of single-story houses visible above the water. 
On Saturday, a second dam failure triggered a fresh round of evacuations in Nikel, another Orsk district. It remains unclear if the dam collapsed or if the river simply overflowed. 
The dam was breached a third time on Monday near the Lesotorgovy neighborhood, which was evacuated in advance. 
Emergency Situations Minister Alexander Kurenkov visited Orsk after a federal-level emergency was announced. In a statement aired on national television, he claimed that the authorities had announced the evacuation of Orsk several days before the dam breach and accused residents of ignoring this message. 
This statement angered locals, who said they were not notified of the evacuation in advance. 
Two days before the dam burst, Orsk Mayor Vasily Kozupitsa assured residents in a since-deleted VKontakte post that he had inspected the dam and that there was no cause for concern. The Moscow Times took a screenshot of the post. 
On Saturday, Orenburg region Governor Denis Pasler announced a one-time payment of 20,000 rubles ($215) to each individual and a payment of up to 100,000 rubles ($1,077) to those who lost property. 
However, the amount of compensation and the authorities’ handling of the evacuation left many Orsk residents underwhelmed. 
On Monday, the third day after the initial dam breach, over 100 people gathered at the Orsk administration building to demand Kozupitsa’s resignation. 
Why should we now restore homes at our own expense? Accept the fact that you … as the one in charge, are responsible for this situation. Say: ‘Yes, forgive us, we didn't take care, we stole.’ Let’s speak openly,” said one of the protesters. 
Everyone knows how they stole from this dam,” she added. 
In response to residents’ outrage, Pasler promised to bring all those responsible to justice and build a new dam, while Kozupitsa announced that all flood victims would receive a 100,000-ruble payment. 
This is not compensation for lost property, but rather immediate support to at least partially recover from the calamity,” Kozupitsa said Monday on the Telegram messaging app. 
Russia’s Investigative Committee has opened a criminal probe into construction safety violations and negligence that may have caused the dam to fail. 
There is still no official explanation for what caused the dam to break. One version of events suggested that the protective dam in Orsk’s Old Town was only designed to hold back a water level of 5.5 meters, but the river rose to a critical 9.6 meters on Friday night. 
The contractor behind the dam’s construction said that rodents burrowing a hole in the dam may have been to blame and ruled out any design or engineering errors. 
'Waist-deep' 
The regional capital of Orenburg, a city of about 560,000 people, has not seen water levels this high since 1942, according to Mayor Sergei Salmin. 
The water came on the night of April 5-6, literally in two hours. Early in the morning, it was ankle-deep, and then within two to three hours, it was waist-deep,” Igor, the owner of a dacha in the flooded area, told The Moscow Times. 
By then, the authorities had closed the roads to his neighborhood and were not letting anyone into the flood zone. Igor managed to salvage a few of his personal belongings. 
When it became clear that the situation was serious, we managed to get our small appliances out, but large items like the stove, refrigerator, electric saw and lawnmower could not be saved,” he said. 
The flooding also struck a house belonging to Martin Gorton, a British citizen living in a cottage community in Orenburg. He described on his YouTube channel how he used a boat to retrieve belongings from his home. 
For days, emergency services, local administrations, concerned citizens and volunteers have been assisting in evacuation efforts, rescuing people and animals. 
However, help has not reached all flooded areas, and people complain of being left to deal with the disaster on their own. 
People sailed to their homes on whatever they could find: boats, motorboats and catamarans,” Anastasia, another resident, told The Moscow Times. There was so much water, it felt like it was a reservoir, not a river — you couldn't see an end or a shore. You sail into nowhere: there's no emergency services, no one on duty anywhere.” 
She added that she had encountered people with pets who chose not to evacuate because they feared looters would break into their homes. 
In Dubki [gardeners' co-operative], houses are submerged to the roofs. In Dubovoy Ples [cottage settlement], they are halfway underwater,” Anastasia said. 
Saunas, gazebos, outdoor toilets and building materials are floating in the water. It's devastating to see.” 
Mayor Salmin said that he did not rule out the possibility of the Ural water intake facility — which supplies water to one-third of the city — shutting down in a critical situation. He also urged the residents not to ignore the evacuation requests. 
On Wednesday, Orenburg authorities called on residents in affected areas to urgently” leave their homes after the Ural River exceeded dangerous levels on Tuesday. 
New reality 
The disaster has also impacted other areas in the Orenburg region, with 304 houses flooded and 127 residents evacuated in the town of Buzuluk. 
In the Buzuluk district, the water washed away a bridge over the Borovka River, which connected settlements in the Buzuluksky Bor National Park. 
According to local resident Anna, the water is quickly rising in Buzuluk. 
Yesterday, this dam was overflowing, meaning it cannot handle the water,” she said. 
The water has also reached the [pumping] station. This is likely the highest water level since its construction in 1905. Because the station was built at the highest point to avoid flooding.” 
In the town of Novotroitsk some 270 kilometers east of Orenburg, several streets were evacuated starting Monday after water overflowed from a local dam built in 1957. 
Meteorologists predict that water levels in the Orenburg region will not stabilize until late April. 
While internet users and celebrities raise funds for food, clothing and hygiene products for the flood victims, experts caution that the disaster in the Orenburg region is just a preview of what is to come as climate change worsens. 
The disaster in Orsk is a classic illustration” of global climate change fueling more frequent and destructive extreme weather events including floods, a Russian climate expert told The Moscow Times. 
The expert requested anonymity due to their affiliation with a group targeted by the Russian authorities. 
Undoubtedly, it is very difficult to detach from the dramatic events unfolding in the Orenburg region, but one way or another ... the background of what has happened is [climate change], which is currently underestimated both in Russia and globally,” the expert said. 
Roshydromet, Russia’s state meteorology and environmental monitoring service, warned in a 2022 report that Russia’s Volga Federal District, which includes the Orenburg region, is at risk of dangerous flooding due to increased river runoff during spring. 
Scientists are sounding the alarm, but they are sounding it inside their own bubble. And those who should be making decisions in climate adaptation do not hear them,” the anonymous climate expert said. 
They added that although the collapsed dam in Orsk could withstand flooding 20 or 40 years ago, it was not built with the effects of climate change in mind. 
We need a new climate policy that incorporates entirely new approaches to infrastructure and population protection issues. We are living in new conditions — the conditions of a climate crisis,” the expert said. 
Near the shores of the Barents Sea in Russia’s far northwest lies Murmansk, the world's largest city beyond the Arctic Circle and a popular destination for tourists hoping to witness the Northern Lights. 
In the heart of the city, Murmansk Commercial Seaport carries out coal transshipment out in the open — sending coal dust into the air in a radius of several kilometers. 
When you stroll through the city center, when you take tourists there, everyone sees this coal dust," Daria, a local tour guide born and raised in Murmansk, told The Moscow Times. 
At her job in the local tourism sector, Daria often shows guests her hometown’s iconic landmarks, like the monument to those who defended the Soviet Arctic during World War II, which are "all covered in coal dust." 
"This certainly raises questions not just among Murmansk residents, but among guests from other regions as well — ‘What is actually going on here?’ And they often ask if it's dangerous to breathe this dust," Daria said. 
Daria withheld her last name due to the potential risks of speaking to a media outlet labeled a foreign agent” by Russia. 
A persistent problem for over a decade, the effects of coal dust pollution have become especially visible in recent months, said Daria. Residents’ complaints about coal dust have surged fifteenfold compared to last year, Governor Andrei Chibis said in March. 
Beyond its unpleasant appearance and harmful impacts on public health, this coal dust is a sign of the port's expanding activity as Russia pivots its coal exports from Europe to Asia under wartime sanctions. 
After Chibis called on state prosecutors to investigate Murmansk seaport for potential violations, port management acknowledged in early March the need to enhance the current dust control system, especially with the uptick in shipments. 
Since February, we have suspended the intake of dusty cargo,” said Pavel Oleynik, executive director of the Murmansk port. 
In February, there was already a 20% decrease in this kind of cargo compared to last year. We are also actively working with freight owners to technologically change the loading places so that these cargoes do not come to us at all,” Oleynik added. 
It remains unclear which specific types of cargo Oleynik was referring to or if it can alleviate the problem in the future, given that coal has been the Murmansk seaport’s main business for years, accounting for over 80% of all freight. 
Black lungs 
Workers in coal terminals like the one in Murmansk are exposed to especially high concentrations of dust, said Anton Lementuev, a native of the Kemerovo (Kuzbass) region, Russia’s coal-mining heartland. 
Yet even residents living far from these sites can face adverse health impacts due to the ease with which fine particles can travel, he added. 
An open-pit coal mining engineer and an activist fighting coal industry pollution since 2014, Lementuev has seen Russia’s coal ports with his own eyes. 
In any port where open coal loading is taking place, a crane with a special bucket simply takes a portion of coal from an open pile, turns around and pours it into the hold,” Lementuev told The Moscow Times. 
This is all accompanied by dust emissions at every stage because the coal starts to break down into fine dust.” 
А 2022 study by Murmansk researchers found that the amount of coal dust in snow samples taken in the city exceeded the maximum allowed concentrations under federal health and safety regulations. 
Coal dust contains heavy metals that are hazardous to humans with prolonged exposure, studies show. In the worst-case scenario, coal industry workers can develop anthracosis, also known as black lung disease.” 
Tiny dust particles build up in the lungs and are not expelled. Lung function gradually declines, leading to irreversible processes [inside the lungs] … and in the most severe cases, to premature death,” Lementuev said. 
Even if workers [in the Murmansk port] have proper respirators — let's say they are lucky and their employer invests in them — people outside the industrial area are also affected, and it's prolonged exposure.” 
Although coal terminals use some pollution containment methods, such as anti-dust water cannons and windbreak nets that reduce the spread of dust by wind, these are only half-measures, Lementuev said. 
He explained that enclosed coal handling in covered facilities at all stages is the only viable solution, even if it’s more expensive. 
If the authorities valued human life and health, they would push these companies to spend money on constructing enclosed warehouses with air purification, ensuring safety. So that workers don’t breathe this dust — they are as dirty as hell inside and out — and nearby residents don’t either,” Lementuev said. 
But since the value of human life [in Russia] is low, the profit of these loading companies takes priority.” 
As the dust settling on the residents’ windowsills and turning the city's snow gray continues to fuel public grievances, the Murmansk trade port is busy expanding its operations. 
One of Russia's primary coal hubs, the terminal increased cargo shipments on the Northern Sea Route (NSR) by 23% in 2023. 
The port also loaded two huge Capesize vessels destined for Asia with coal last year, claiming they were the largest ships to ever navigate the NSR. 
As Moscow aims to expand its exports to the east, the activity in the port of Murmansk offers a glimpse of the state of the Russian coal industry amid the third year of the war on Ukraine. 
Navigating the storm 
Over a year and a half since a coal embargo of the European Union — which had purchased one-third of all Russian coal sold abroad — the Russian coal industry has yet to see a significant downturn. 
Official figures indicate that Russia’s total сoal production decreased by a marginal 1% in 2023 compared to the previous year, remaining at levels similar to pre-war volumes. 
According to Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak, coal exports increased by 1% last year, rebounding from a 7.5% decline in 2022 compared to the previous year. 
Despite the temporary setback in 2022 — when the industry was grappling with Western sanctions imposed during the first year of the war — experts say Russia’s coal exports have remained stable, with the country’s pivot toward Asian markets now fully underway. 
Moscow had started looking eastward before the war, acknowledging in Russia’s 2020 coal strategy the need for change due to the EU’s shift away from coal in alignment with the Paris climate agreement. The sanctions have simply accelerated the process. 
According to Novak, Russia sold nearly 52% more coal to China and 43% more to India in 2023 compared to the previous year, while the share of BRICS countries in Russia's total coal exports surged by about 46% in 2023. 
Yet the transition will continue to take effort. 
Russia has faced logistical hurdles, particularly in the Kuzbass, in its efforts to redirect its entire coal volume previously destined for Europe to the East. 
There's a significant problem with exports [in Kuzbass],” independent renewables expert Tatiana Lanshina told The Moscow Times. 
Kuzbass saw regular rail traffic jams last year because the current infrastructure simply cannot handle this much coal heading eastward,” Lanshina said. 
Sanctions have also made it increasingly difficult for the Russian coal industry to strike deals with foreign partners, Lanshina said — and the agreements secured are less profitable than those previously established with the EU. 
The industry also faces the looming possibility of a future crisis, with losses expected at the end of 2024 due to falling coal prices and rising logistics and loan servicing costs, the Kommersant business daily reported Tuesday. 
However, Russia’s current bet on Asian markets, whose environmental and social policies are projected to lag behind those in the West, will ensure stable demand for Russian coal over the next five to 10 years, Lanshina said. 
But in the longer term, the industry will undoubtedly face significant challenges.” 
By the middle of the century, I believe the environmental agenda will extend to Asian countries as well, as all countries are interconnected, and global supply chains for goods are intertwined,” the expert said. 
For example, if Europe manufactures some product, it will naturally begin to demand that its Asian suppliers also address greenhouse emissions, workers rights and so on.” 
Russian officials and senior managers at major firms are well aware that the global energy transition will reduce coal demand, Lanshina said, but they are unwilling to embrace the transition themselves. 
Given the uncertain political and economic outlook for Russia, making long-term predictions may prove futile. 
"Neither in the government nor in the companies does anyone think about the year 2050 or even 2030, because everyone is living day-to-day,” Lanshina said. 
It's important to sell now, extract as much as possible, export and earn money,” Lanshina said. Nobody thinks about what will happen next.” 
Despite the challenges posed by the West, the Russian coal industry appears to be staying afloat for now, leading some to question whether the sanctions on Russian coal have achieved their goals. 
Yes, Asian markets are not as profitable, and yes, Russia is not currently receiving the same level of revenue from its exports,” Lanshina said. 
There's less money overall, but still enough to continue the war.” 
Climate change affects almost all sectors of human societies and life. One underrated and underreported consequence of the climate crisis is so-called climate migration — displacement due to climate change. The International Organization for Migration (IOM) predicts the number of "environmental migrants" in 2050 to be between 25 million and 1 billion. To find out more about this topic and, in particular, about one of the most affected regions — Central Asia — Angelina Davydova and Boris Schneider spoke to Viviane Clement, senior climate change specialist with the World Bank's Climate Change Group, Ikrom Mamadov, director of the Youth Group on the Protection of the Environment and the national director of the Ecological Network of Tajikistan, and Kira Vinke, head of the Center for Climate and Foreign Policy at the German Council of Foreign Relations (DGAP). 
Russian President Vladimir Putin secured a fifth term in power after he took home more than 87% of the votes in the 2024 presidential race, election officials said earlier this week. 
But Putin's victory was never in doubt, with his major opponents in exile, imprisoned or dead, all the while the Kremlin has waged an unrelenting crackdown on public dissent since invading Ukraine in February 2022. 
At the same time, the three-day voting period was marred by widespread reports of fraud, pressure on voters and restrictions on independent election monitors. 
So, do Russians believe Putin really won? We asked people on the streets of Moscow what they think. 
U.S. President Joe Biden is warning his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin against using chemical or tactical nuclear weapons in the wake of serious losses in his war in Ukraine. 
"Don't. Don't. Don't," Biden said, in an excerpt from an interview with CBS' "60 Minutes" aired Friday evening. 
Biden was responding to an interviewer’s question about the possibility of Putin, whose army is incurring heavy losses in the Ukraine counteroffensive this month, resorting to chemical or tactical nuclear weapons. 
"You would change the face of war unlike anything since World War II," Biden said. 
"They will become more of a pariah in the world, more than they have ever been," the U.S. leader added. 
Ukraine has recaptured swaths of territory in the east from occupying Russian forces in recent weeks, boosted by heavy weapons supplied by Western allies. 
And Moscow is facing fresh outrage from the West after the discovery of a mass grave outside the formerly Russian-occupied city of Izyum, where, Kyiv officials say, almost all of the exhumed bodies showed signs of torture. 
But Putin remained steadfast, saying his war against Russia's Western-leaning neighbor was proceeding according to plan. 
"The plan is not subject to adjustment," Putin said Friday. "Our offensive operations in Donbas itself do not stop. They are going at a slow pace... The Russian army is occupying newer and newer territories." 
The international media regularly publishes sensationalist headlines about Chechnya. Chechen boss sidelines son for ‘thug’ sibling,” reads a recent article about Adam Kadyrov, the 16-year-old son of regional leader Ramzan Kadyrov. 
This recent spike in interest in Kadyrov’s children relates to the many awards recently bestowed on Adam. The Chechen strongman’s son received nine awards in October and November, including the title of Hero of Chechnya,” the Order Labor Valor of Russia,” and the Order For Services to the Kabardino-Balkarian Republic.” 
Adam Kadyrov was also recently appointed head of the Chechen leader’s security department and overseer of a rifle battalion — quite a set of achievements for a teenager. 
What should we make of this? Is Adam being groomed to succeed his father as leader of Chechnya, in preference over his older brother Akhmat? Is the matter of succession now more urgent because Ramzan is — according to rumors and reports — gravely ill? 
The honest answer is that we don’t know. To appreciate the full range of possibilities, it’s helpful to zoom out from current specifics to what appears to be a constant of Chechen — and Russian — politics. 
In September, global attention turned to Chechnya amid suggestions that Ramzan Kadyrov was hospitalized, or even dead. Such reports have proven to be greatly exaggerated. 
Both Kadyrov and President Vladimir Putin have been claimed to be suffering from terminal illnesses. On several occasions, both have been reported to have died, only to appear in public soon after. 
One might think that this would make analysts and journalists think twice about jumping to conclusions. But the claims themselves just won’t die. Why not? 
More than anything, these recurrent claims reflect the personalist nature of Russian and Chechen autocracy. So much appears to depend on these rulers that their health becomes fundamental to the system’s functioning, generating intense speculation if anything even hints that their ability to govern could be impaired. 
This is not to say that everything depends on these particular individuals. Neither Putin nor Ramzan Kadyrov have constructed systems that rely entirely on them to function. But their centrality is enough to foster conditions ripe for rumors concerning their ability to rule. 
The timing of Adam Kadyrov’s promotions and accolades is particularly interesting. On Sept. 25, Ramzan Kadyrov published a video on Telegram showing Adam beating up a young man detained on accusations of burning a copy of the Quran. 
The Chechen leader praised his son for this shocking, illegal violence against an individual detained by the state, saying: I’m proud of Adam’s actions … he did the right thing.” 
The violence was widely condemned, but the response from Russian officials was muted. 
Shortly after publishing the video, Ramzan Kadyrov visited Putin in the Kremlin. When asked about Adam Kadyrov’s actions, presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov declined to answer questions on the topic, saying he did not want to. 
Peskov’s silence is easy to explain. Moscow is trapped between two things: on one hand, maintaining its support for Ramzan Kadyrov’s tight grip over Chechnya, fearing that the end of strongman rule might result in a return to regional instability; and, on the other hand, its legal-constitutional obligations to prosecute alleged crimes. It appears that in this case, the former trumped the latter. 
Lawyers interviewed by BBC News Russian stated that those involved in the beating, as well as in the dissemination of its recording, are potentially liable for prosecution under a minimum of nine articles of Russian legislation. 
In the context of this controversy, Adam’s awards can be seen as public shows of support for him and his family, more broadly. Ramzan Kadyrov does not need to be in poor health for these awards to make sense. 
Adam is not the only child of Ramzan Kadyrov to receive awards and appointments recently, however. His daughter, Aishat Kadyrova, was promoted from Chechnya’s Culture Minister to its Deputy Prime Minister in early October. And Akhmat Kadyrov — the eldest son — was appointed First Deputy of the Chechen Republic for Physical Culture, Sport and Youth Policy in November. 
All this looks like a broader effort to bolster the position of the family, placing them at the center of Chechnya’s formal power structures. It may well be that Ramzan Kadyrov is seriously ill and may soon be unable to defend his family’s grip over the republic. But then again, this could simply be longer-term planning by the current leader. 
Even if Ramzan Kadyrov is gravely ill, he would not be able to pass on formal leadership of the republic directly to one of his children, given their ages. Article 64 of the Chechen constitution states that individuals must be at least 30 years old to be elected head of the republic. 
We need to be honest and upfront about the limits to our knowledge — and be ready to push back against conclusions that jump the gun. 
Of course, this plea for caution won’t be heeded by click-hungry publications that are ready to indulge in gossip, rather than carefully evaluate the evidence at hand. 
When it comes to Chechnya, saying we just don’t know” might not sell. But it’s the truth. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Women in Russia’s North Caucasus republic of Dagestan have been warned against sending nude photos to their partners as police have apparently seen an uptick in complaints from women whose partners had taken advantage of them. 
No matter how in love you are, no matter how infatuated you are with this prince, don’t lose your mind! Don’t rule out a possible quarrel and a breakup!” Gayana Garieva, the spokeswoman for Dagestan’s Interior Ministry, wrote on her Telegram channel Thursday. 
Alas...sometimes a prince on a white horse turns out to be a goat on an emaciated donkey or even a walking brute with assh*** habits,” she added. 
Garieva alluded to receiving a large number of requests for legal help from local women whose former partners threatened to publish — or actually published — their intimate photos and videos. 
You ask me for help, but tie my hands by requesting anonymity. I understand your fears, but…I can’t do anything without the help of my colleagues,” the spokeswoman said. 
Garieva later told the independent news outlet Podyom that the post was her personal message” to women in the republic and did not reflect her ministry’s official position. 
A longstanding conspiracy theory claims that President Vladimir Putin uses body doubles for some of his public appearances. 
The Kremlin recently laughed off the rumors, saying: "This belongs to the category of absurd information hoaxes that a whole series of media discuss with enviable tenacity. This evokes nothing but a smile." 
In 2020, Putin himself denied using body doubles, but admitted that he had been offered the chance to use one in the past for security reasons. 
Calls for a nationwide abortion ban are growing in Russia as regions across the country gradually impose anti-abortion policies ranging from outlawing the so-called act of "coercing women" into having an abortion to banning the procedure in private clinics. 
We asked people on the streets of Moscow to share their views on restricting access to abortions. 
Russia is set to decide on whether it will designate the so-called international LGBT public movement” as an extremist” group, a move that would effectively outlaw all LGBT activism. 
The anticipated Supreme Court ruling is the latest episode in the country's conservative bent that has intensified since the invasion of Ukraine. 
We asked Russians if they supported the expected ban. 
Dutch authorities have arrested a man on suspicion of selling microchips to Russia in breach of sanctions imposed by the West over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine, officials said on Friday. 
The microchips, sold to companies and other bodies in Russia, could be used for military purposes, the Dutch financial and fiscal crime investigation service (FIOD) said. 
The 55-year-old suspect has dual Dutch and Russian nationality, a FIOD spokeswoman told AFP. 
He was arrested in the east of the Netherlands on Sept. 27 following a report from a bank to financial investigators. 
"The suspect is believed to have supplied microchips to companies or entities in Russia, among other things. These microchips can also be used for the production of weapons," FIOD said in a statement. 
"It is known that the Russian arms industry is currently struggling with a serious shortage of these microchips." 
The suspect is believed to have pretended the microchips were destined for somewhere else in order to evade sanctions, FIOD said. 
His private and business bank accounts and stocks of electronic goods had been seized, it added. 
The investigation also involved the European Union police agency Europol and Dutch customs. 
The man was placed in custody on Sept. 30 by an examining magistrate, it said. 
Western countries have imposed wide-ranging sanctions on Russia since its Feb. 24 invasion of Ukraine. 
European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said last month, ahead of the adoption of a fresh round of sanctions, that the "aim is here to deprive the Kremlin's military complex of key technologies." 
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan urged his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin in a call on Wednesday not to further escalate tensions, after Moscow struck facilities vital for grain shipments from Ukraine. 
Erdogan was a key player in the now-collapsed deal that allowed for safe passage of Ukraine grain shipments on the Black Sea, and has positioned himself as an intermediary in the conflict. 
The Turkish leader said "no steps should be taken that will escalate tensions in the Russia-Ukraine war." 
He emphasized the significance of the grain deal that he called a "bridge for peace," the office added. 
The accord, brokered by Turkey and the United Nations, allowed Ukraine to export grain via its Black Sea ports, but it ended last month after Moscow withdrew. 
Ukraine said Wednesday that Russia had struck port infrastructure in Ukraine's southern region of Odesa, targeting facilities used to export grain since the collapse of the deal allowing shipments from the Black Sea. 
As a result of the attack, a grain elevator, grain silos and warehouses were damaged or destroyed, prosecutors said. 
Erdogan told Putin that the long-term inactivation of the grain deal "will not benefit anyone" and that the countries in need would suffer the most, according to the presidency. 
Erdogan also said the grain prices that decreased by 23% when the agreement was in force increased by 15% over the last two weeks. 
He vowed Turkey would press ahead with "intensive efforts" and diplomacy to re-establish the agreement. 
The two leaders also agreed on Putin's visit to Turkey, according to Erdogan's office, but no timetable was given. 
Estonia on Thursday passed a law that allows the authorities to transfer frozen Russian assets in the country to Ukraine as compensation for damages caused by Moscow’s full-scale invasion. 
Estonian President Alar Karis said the confiscation of assets raises unresolved legal questions,” but assured they would only be used if the owner’s role in Russia’s war against Ukraine is proven sufficiently.” 
Regardless of what one thinks of the solution chosen in Estonia, there is no doubt that we need to find effective ways to guarantee the right of victims of aggression to obtain compensation from the perpetrators of the damage,” Karis was quoted as saying by the ERR news agency. 
The Riigkogu must be able to make policy choices in such an ambiguous situation,” he added, referring to Estonia’s parliament, two-thirds of which backed the confiscation law earlier this month before it was sent to the president’s desk for a signature. 
Last week, the EU approved a similar measure to use frozen Russian assets for Ukraine after months of political wrangling. 
The EU froze around 200 billion euros ($216.3 billion) of Russian Central Bank assets held in the bloc as part of sanctions imposed on Moscow over its invasion. 
Under the EU plan, 90% of the money taken from the earned interest on the assets would go to a fund used for supplying weapons to Ukraine. The other 10% would be funneled into the EU’s budget, where it would be used to help increase the capacity of Ukraine’s defense industry. 
The Kremlin denounced the decision as an unprecedented violation” of international law that would make Brussels the target of prosecution for many decades.” Russia’s Foreign Ministry vowed a response to what it described as the EU’s banditry and theft.” 
EU member states on Thursday agreed to impose "prohibitive" duties on grain imports from Russia in a bid to limit revenues to Moscow as it continues to wage war on neighboring Ukraine. 
The latest measure will "tackle illegal Russian exports of stolen Ukraine grain into EU markets," the EU's trade commissioner, Valdis Dombrovskis, said on social media. 
Likewise, the tariffs will be applied to supplies from Belarus, which served as a staging ground for the Kremlin's full-scale invasion in February 2022. 
But the tariffs will not apply to Russian grain transiting through the EU to countries outside the bloc, to ensure that food supplies elsewhere are not impacted. Under World Trade Organization rules, virtually all Russian grain has until now been exempt from EU import duties. 
Starting on July 1, the EU will increase "duties on cereals, oilseeds and derived products from Russia and Belarus to a point that will in practice halt imports of these products," the council representing the EU's 27 member states said. 
"These measures will therefore prevent the destabilization of the EU's grain market [and] halt Russian exports of illegally appropriated grain produced in the territories of Ukraine," said Vincent Van Peteghem, Belgian's Minister of Finance. 
"This is yet another way in which the EU is showing steady support to Ukraine," he added. 
Russia has previously warned against the move, with Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov saying in March that "consumers in Europe would definitely suffer." 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told EU leaders earlier this year that it was unfair that Russian grain maintained access to their markets, while Ukrainian imports faced restrictions. 
EU foreign ministers meeting in Brussels on Monday approved sanctions over abuses in China, Myanmar and Russia, as the bloc expands measures targeting global rights breaches. 
The 27 nations are due to place four Chinese officials and one state-run entity on a blacklist over Beijing's crackdown on the Uighur minority after ambassadors gave the go-ahead last week. 
The highly symbolic move — reported by EU diplomats and expected to be formally unveiled in the EU's official journal later Monday — is the first time Brussels has hit Beijing over human rights abuses since it imposed an arms embargo in 1989 after Tiananmen Square 
China's foreign ministry has warned that Beijing will "react with a firm hand" against any punishment over its actions in the western Xinjiang region. 
The measures are part of a package of human rights sanctions targeting a dozen people that also includes individuals in Russia, North Korea, Eritrea, South Sudan and Libya, diplomats said. 
"This is a very important step which shows how committed we are," Slovak Foreign Minister Ivan Korcok said. 
The mechanism — designed to make it easier for the bloc to target rights abusers — was launched this month with sanctions on four Russian officials over the jailing of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny. 
Diplomats said the fresh sanctions on Russia will target individuals behind abuses in the country's Chechnya region, which is ruled with an iron-fist by Kremlin loyalist Ramzan Kadyrov. 
The EU will also slap asset freezes and visa bans on 11 officials of Myanmar's junta over the military coup last month and crackdown on demonstrators. 
"What we see there in terms of excesses of violence is absolutely unacceptable," German Foreign Minister Heiko Maas said. 
"That is why we will not be able to avoid imposing sanctions." 
Myanmar has been in turmoil since the military ousted civilian leader Aung San Suu Kyi on February 1, triggering a mass uprising that security forces have sought to crush with a campaign of violence and fear. 
Diplomats have said businesses tied to the military will likely be placed under sanctions in the coming weeks. 
Turkey ties 
Turkey will feature prominently at the meeting as member states debate efforts to improve ties after a spike in tensions last year over the eastern Mediterranean. 
Brussels has welcomed steps by Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to reduce tensions by restarting talks with Greece over their disputed maritime border. 
But there remain major concerns, including over domestic freedoms after moves to ban a key opposition party and Erdogan's decision to leave a global treaty to prevent violence against women. 
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell has drawn up a report outlining the bloc's options to be discussed by leaders at a video conference this week. 
Warming ties have seen efforts to impose sanctions agreed on in December over Turkish drilling off Cyprus put on the back burner for fear of derailing the rapprochement. 
"There are different signals from Turkey," Maas said. 
"We will continue to try to remain in dialogue, but also to use this dialogue to address the issues where we believe that Turkey is sending out the wrong signals." 
European Union leaders agreed on Thursday to prolong until the end of January 2020 economic sanctions against Russia over the turmoil in Ukraine, a spokesman for the bloc said. 
The EU first slapped sanctions on Russia after Moscow annexed Crimea from Ukraine in March 2014 and supported rebels fighting Kiev troops in the east of the country. That conflict, which killed 13,000 people, is still simmering. 
"Russia sanctions unanimously extended for another six months because of a lack of Minsk Agreements implementation," said the spokesman, Preben Aman, referring to a stalled peace accord for east Ukraine. 
The downing in east Ukraine in July 2014 of a Malaysian passenger plane led to a toughening of the EU's response to the crisis. All 298 people aboard, many of them Dutch, perished. 
A Dutch-led international investigative team on Wednesday said three Russians and a Ukrainian will face murder charges for bringing down the MH17 flight. 
EU leaders also gave their "full support for all efforts to establish truth, justice and accountability for the victims and their next of kin." Their joint statement called "on Russia to cooperate fully with the ongoing investigation." 
The EU's economic sanctions against Moscow over Ukraine include curbs on Russian energy, defense and financial sectors and are currently in place until the end of July. The formal roll-over will take place in the coming days. 
The bloc on Thursday also extended for a year until June 2020 its separate sanctions that ban the bloc from doing business with Russia-annexed Crimea. 
The bloc also expressed "utmost concern" about President Vladimir Putin's decree allowing Ukrainians in the troubled east to get Russian passports under simplified procedures. 
The EU's Russia hawks, Poland and Lithuania, are among those pushing to extend the bloc's punitive measures against Moscow over the passport issue. 
But any new EU sanctions would require unanimity among all the 28 national leaders of the bloc and no new sanctions are expected swiftly as most others — including Italy, Germany and France — are opposed. 
The leaders agreed, however, that the bloc would "consider further options, including non-recognition of Russian passports" issued in east Ukraine which undermine the peace process. 
In Moscow, Putin said in his annual televised question-and-answer session on Thursday that the fate of 24 Ukrainian sailors held by Russia since last year must be linked to the release of Russian citizens held in Ukraine whom Moscow wants to see freed. 
The EU leaders meeting in Brussels on Thursday demanded that Russia releases the Ukrainian servicemen "unconditionally," their joint statement read. 
Russia ramped up its fish exports to the European Union in 2022 despite tensions over the war in Ukraine, the Kommersant business daily reported Wednesday, citing trade data. 
Last year’s supply volumes to the European Union increased by 18.7% to a total of 198,800 metric tons, according to the Russian Fishery Industries Association (VARPE). 
The value of Russian fish exports increased by 57.6% to 940 million euros ($1 billion), VARPE said in its annual review based on Eurostat data. 
Netherlands, Poland, and Germany were the biggest buyers of Russian fish, Kommersant reported. 
Russia provided 4.5% of the EU’s 4.4 million tons of fish and seafood imports in 2022. 
The uptick in Russian exports to the EU is explained by European wholesalers and processors stocking up in anticipation of possible sanctions on Russia’s fish industry, VARPE President German Zverev told Kommersant. 
Market participants say Russian fish was sold at a discount in 2022 due to the risk of EU sanctions, though they also expect Russian fish exports to the EU to remain at 2022 levels in 2023 in the absence of restrictions, Kommersant reported. 
The European Union on Friday imposed sanctions against Primorye region Governor Oleg Kozhemyako in Russia’s Far East over what it said were arms supplies to North Korea in violation of UN sanctions. 
Kozhemyako was seen gifting kamikaze and reconnaissance drones, as well as a bulletproof vest, to North Korean leader Kim Jong Un during his closely followed visit to Russia in September, his first foreign trip since the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Mr. Kozhemyako presented weaponry and uniforms to Kim Jong Un as gifts for him to take back to the DPRK, in violation of UN Security Council resolutions,” the Council of the EU said in a statement, referring to North Korea by its abbreviated name. 
Such material will then be used by the DPRK armed forces and re-engineered, constituting an indirect transfer of technology to the DPRK. [Kozhemyako] is thus assisting in the evasion of UN sanctions,” the Council claimed. 
Besides Kozhemyako, the EU sanctioned five North Koreans, two North Korean firms and one Russian company linked to arms or money transfers for Pyongyang. 
The sanctioned Russian firm, a port operator called Eastern Stevedoring Company, was accused of facilitating the transfer of thousands of containers of DPRK weapons and ammunition” to Russian forces to be used in Ukraine. 
A U.S. Defense Department report this week said Russia was using North Korean ballistic missiles in Ukraine, citing an analysis of debris found in Ukraine’s Kharkiv region in January. 
South Korea has accused North Korea of sending thousands of containers of munitions to Russia. Kim’s sister Kim Yo Jong dismissed the accusations this month as absurd.” 
The EU sanctions came as the G7 expressed concern about deepening military cooperation between Russia and North Korea. The bloc says it has now sanctioned 77 individuals and 20 entities over North Korea's weapons programs, on top of UN-mandated sanctions. 
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell on Tuesday urged countries to balance fear of escalation against Ukraine's need to defend itself, saying Kyiv had the right to use Western arms to strike in Russia. 
"According with the law of war, it is perfectly possible and there is no contradiction. 
"I could retaliate or I could fight against the one who fights against me from his territory," Borrell said at the start of a meeting with European Union defense ministers. 
"You have to balance the risk of escalation and the need for Ukrainians to defend." 
Ukraine has been pressing its Western backers to allow it to hit targets in Russia using the longer-range weaponry Kyiv's supporters are supplying. 
Key backers including the United States and Germany have been reluctant to permit Kyiv to strike targets in Russia out of fear that it could drag them closer to direct conflict with Moscow. 
Several other defense ministers at the gathering in Brussels backed Borrell's call. 
Dutch minister Kajsa Ollongren said the Netherlands had no restrictions and that she hoped "other countries that have different positions will change that". 
"It is quite feasible that they have to strike also inside Russia," Ollongren said. 
Estonia's Hanno Pevkur said he "truly hopes” that every country that donated weapons to Ukraine allows Kyiv to strike Russian territory. 
"It cannot be normal that Russia is attacking from very deep into Ukrainian territory and the Ukrainians are fighting with one hand behind their back," he said. 
The calls came after NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said on Monday that "the time had come" for allies to reconsider their restrictions, especially as Russia is pounding the Ukrainian city of Kharkiv with bombs, drones, and missiles launched from its own territory. 
At the same time, NATO countries are struggling to provide Kyiv with the air defense system it desperately needs. 
Stoltenberg said last month that allies had agreed to give more air defenses. But since then no new systems have been pledged. 
Dutch minister Ollongren said The Netherlands is working on an initiative to assemble a Patriot air defense system in close cooperation with several partners to send to Ukraine. 
"We will deliver, from our own capabilities, several parts of the system so that we can assemble the whole system and deliver it to Ukraine," she said. 
On a recent Friday night in Warsaw, Poland, over 300 people filled a small university-run club to see exiled electronic duo AIGEL — but few, if any, spoke the language of the song they were eagerly awaiting. 
I must not miss the song,” a woman in the crowd tells her friend in Russian as they move away from the dance floor toward the bar. 
When the song, Piyala,” finally starts, the crowd cheers loudly and starts jumping to the beat. 
AIGEL made history when Piyala” (Glass” in Tatar) topped several global streaming charts late last year, becoming the first song in the Tatar language to achieve worldwide success. 
Initially released in 2020 on the band’s fourth studio album of the same name, Piyala” found renewed popularity when it was featured in the viral Russian TV series Slovo Patsana,” which dramatizes the republic of Tatarstan’s thriving gang culture of the late 1980s. 
Its fame has made the AIGEL a household name, sparking mixed reactions among listeners in Russia because of the duo’s anti-war stance while also bringing attention to the status of minority languages in the country. 
Ilya and I were watching it happen with a feeling of restrained joy. It’s like watching your child conquer new heights, live their own life, [find] their own friends, [their] own listeners,” recalls AIGEL’s frontwoman, Tatar singer-songwriter Aigel Gaisina. 
There was also this feeling of something like, ‘Oh, you’ve finally listened closely to this one, but we also have other great songs!’” Gaisina’s bandmate, music producer Ilya Baramia, adds with a laugh. 
The Moscow Times spoke with AIGEL shortly after their Warsaw concert, a stop on their 2024 European and U.S. tour. 
Blacklisted by the Russian authorities over their vocal opposition to the Kremlin’s invasion of Ukraine, the duo now lives and performs abroad, with Gaisina residing in Germany and Baramia in Montenegro. 
Our creative process hasn’t changed at all [since we moved],” said Baramia. Before Russia invaded Ukraine, he had been based in St. Petersburg, while Gaisina resided in her native Tatarstan. 
We have a [shared digital] folder with about 40 to 50 beat samples for songs. At some point, Aigel chooses one of them and comes up with a song, then sends the voice [recording] to me and I finish up the music,” Baramia explained. 
When the song starts taking shape, we move to sending it back and forth on Telegram,” he adds. We almost always only see each other at our concerts.” 
Yet their new life abroad has brought at least some changes for the duo, who record songs in Russian, Tatar and English. 
At the start of the band’s concert in Warsaw, Gaisina surveyed the audience to decide whether to introduce each song in Russian or English. 
Only a few raised their hands to indicate that they didn’t understand Russian, as most of the audience appeared to be exiles from Russia and Belarus. 
I speak English because no matter how many people in the audience understand Russian, I really want everyone who comes to see us to understand [me], to be on equal terms,” Gaisina explains. 
I still burst into [Russian] when I realize that I can’t express certain thoughts in English because my English isn’t that good,” she adds. 
Piyala” was written in Tatar, a Turkic language spoken by Russia’s non-Slavic Indigenous community of the same name. According to Russian census data, the language has lost 1 million speakers over the past decade. 
In an environment where Tatar and other minority and indigenous languages in Russia are being pushed toward extinction by the Kremlin’s policies of russification, the song’s success has become a political message of its own. 
It’s a poetic statement,” Gaisina jokes when asked whether she sees singing in Tatar as a political statement. 
Though Piyala,” a love song, was never intended to carry a political message, its viral success made it a lightning rod for heated debates among the Russian public. 
In February, a Russian propaganda clip featuring a heavily edited version of the song circulated online. Without the band’s permission, its Tatar lyrics were replaced with Russian-language calls to vote in the presidential election. 
Meanwhile in Ukraine, where Piyala” also topped major song charts, many debated whether it was acceptable to listen to a band from Russia while the Russian army was invading their country. 
I am very pleased to know that people in Ukraine listen to us,” says Gaisina. We are very grateful because we know how difficult it can be to overcome your loathing of the context and keep an artist who might trigger you in your playlist.” 
Piyala” also caught the attention of Russia’s patriotic” pro-war circles, according to Gaisina. 
There were a lot of outraged people who found our social media after listening to the song, saw that we are against the war and felt deeply offended,” said Gaisina. 
[These] people, who really didn’t want to face the context [of the war], were forced into it through us. They had to make [an independent] choice in their head whether to listen to this music or not,” she explained. That’s the power of art that doesn’t intend to manipulate [the people].” 
But for Gaisina, the most moving impact of the song’s popularity was an online flashmob by Indigenous groups of Russia who recorded covers of Piyala” in their native tongues and posted short clips online. The viral trend then spread across the former Soviet republics and even led to clips in Japanese and Chinese. 
That made my heart tremble,” says Gaisina. I think that turned not exactly into a political statement, but into a movement of cultures that are pushed aside because of small numbers, but which still exist.” 
Though AIGEL’s music — whether intentionally or not — sparks challenging but vital conversations on war and peace and cultural diversity, the duo has few hopes for the future popularity of their music and that of the country they left behind. 
I have a very pessimistic approach to everything and I think that is kind of a protective mechanism. We never expect anything from any material we release,” Gaisina said of Piyala” at the start of the interview. It is always a pleasant surprise [when a song of ours gets popular].” 
This pessimistic outlook resurfaces as the conversation ends and Gaisina is asked what kind of Russia she would want to come back to. 
I don’t believe that I will come back. I don’t believe that the change I need will happen in the next century. I have no illusions about that,” says Gaisina. 
Her fatalistic approach is echoed by Baramia, who appears to balk at the question. 
Oh, I don’t want to come back to any kind of Russia at all!” 
AIGEL will kick off its U.S. tour on June 7 in New York City. More information on dates and tickets here. 
Each year, Russia seizes May 9th to reinforce its image as a global power with legendary military might. Once a symbol of unity among nations aspiring for peace, Victory Day has now evolved into another line on an ideological battleground between Russia and the West, including Ukraine. 
This year, Russia – declared a state sponsor of terrorism by the EU – will celebrate right after the inauguration of its fifth-time and probably life-long president Vladimir Putin, indicted by the International Criminal Court. The country seems to have lost its battle for democracy, and is proud of further alienation from the West, and the mounting victims of its aggression. Russia has been subdued by extensive censorship and propaganda, rising illiberalism, and the squashing of dissenting voices extending to murder. 
While the performative voting saw widespread anomalies and 22 million fake votes cast across the country, the outcome of a genuinely free and fair election might yield similar results. This means that with Russia’s current leader, little might change for the country. 
While Europe solemnly vows that the horrors of war should never happen again, Russia is proclaiming that they can advance across Europe once more. In the best tradition of Russian diplomacy, it pushes on with nuclear blackmailing, announcing tactical nuclear weapons drills and threatening Britain and France for their bold support of Ukraine. 
Analysts suggest that the Kremlin aims to capture Chasiv Yar by May 9th to satisfy its domestic audience’s hunger for victory. This strategic location may potentially serve as a springboard for further Russian advances toward Sloviansk and Kramatorsk. 
However, these are not the territories that may satisfy Russia’s appetite. What they really want is the defeat of the West whose collective effort is not enough for Ukraine to be a safe and prosperous country. Ukraine is a message to all ex-Soviet republics, a kind of a ‘hanged man’ reminding of the fate of the disobedient. 
To offset significant losses in the war against Ukraine, Russian leadership aims to recruit approximately 400,000 contract soldiers. Meanwhile, Putin has announced that by the end of the year, half a million Russians will be mobilized for the war against Ukraine, with 617,000 currently engaged in combat. Under the pretext of elections on the temporarily occupied territories, Moscow launched a hidden mobilization for the next phase of the war. 
While money remains the main motivation for Russians who choose to fight, sociologist Grigory Yudin thinks that the motivating emotion among Russians is resentment caused by the belief that Russia’s national superiority is being sidelined by the global order. Some Russians who are horrified by Russia's aggressive policies still fear the possibility of their country losing the war and definitively stopping being a global power. 
This sense of resentment towards the world forms a pretext for the rise of fascist regimes. Russia in the 1990s underwent not only a sharp reduction in living standards but also a crisis of national identity. This resulted in deeply ingrained collective anger and the inability to govern the country through traditional democratic means. 
Alexander Dugin refreshed the ideas of the political philosopher Ivan Ilyin, offering Russians a sense of identity rooted in militaristic imperial nationalism. This is the idea that Russia acts as a counterweight against Western hegemony, leading nations united by Eurosianism, traditionalism, and anti-liberalism. If nations like Ukraine refuse to comply, they are labeled as either non-existent or fascist, justifying their conquest and Russification. 
Another two features of fascism evident in Russia are the willingness of the majority of society to enter a state of mobilization accepting limitations on rights and freedoms, and the presence of a charismatic figure to serve as the leader of the nation. Even though more than half of the Russian population would support a peace treaty with Ukraine, only 3 % believe it should result in Ukraine regaining sovereignty over all its internationally recognized territory. 
All these moods are reflected in the Victory Day celebrations, along with the ubiquitous stripes of the Saint George ribbon and the Z” logo. The letter has become the most recognizable symbol of public support for Russia's invasion of Ukraine, giving supporters of the war a symbol to rally behind. To encapsulate the essence of Russia's Victory Day, Ukrainians have coined the term pobedobesiyje” (a frenzy of victory)—a haunting portrayal of celebrations driven by a pursuit of victory so obsessive it is akin to demonic possession 
Russia does not fully resemble fascist states of the past, lacking revolutionary fervor and a mass obsession with utopia. The term post-fascism,” which emerged from the analysis of European far-right movements, may describe the explosive mixture of state management mechanisms, societal moods and popular myths defining today’s Russia more appropriately. But regardless of what we call this phenomenon, it is just as dangerous as fascism. 
As the war continues, without the aim of controlling specific territory but causing the downfall of Ukraine as a liberal democracy, its end remains elusive. Even if the fighting transitions to a lower intensity, Russia will persist in its endeavors to overtake Ukraine politically and economically, undermine liberal democracies across Europe and challenge U.S. influence in the region. 
In his inauguration speech, boycotted by most Western countries, Putin once again proclaimed Russian exceptionalism and emphasized the need to establish a multi-polar world order. Putin said that discussions with the West on security and strategic stability are possible, but not if the West approached them from a position of strength. 
However, Russia’s interests are incompatible with democratic values, and remain a direct threat to Ukraine’s very existence. Hence, the ultimate objective of the collective effort to support Ukraine should be the defeat of the specter of fascism in Russia. Otherwise, Russia will continue to be the world’s troublemaker. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Authorities in Far East Russia’s republic of Sakha (Yakutia) have declared a state of emergency after seasonal flooding submerged hundreds of homes and forced residents to move to temporary shelters. 
Nearly 450 homes and more than 550 land plots have been flooded since the Lena River, with a length of 4,294 kilometers, started overflowing last week due to ice jams, the Emergency Situations Ministry said Tuesday. 
The ministry said at least one elderly woman was rescued and later hospitalized. More than 300 displaced residents, including 71 children, have been placed in temporary shelters. 
Videos shared on social media showed entire villages submerged underwater and rescue workers navigating the affected areas by boat. 
Sakha Governor Aysen Nikolaev on Monday declared a region-wide emergency due to the difficult flood situation in a number of districts of the republic.” 
Khatyryk village was last flooded about 100 years ago, so it’s a big blow for people,” Nikolaev said. 
In a video of his visit to the flood-stricken areas, the governor heard one elderly resident telling him that the water didn’t arrive slowly, but in waves,” while another claimed that we’ve never been flooded.” 
Russia’s Emergency Situations Minister Alexander Kurenkov is reportedly scheduled to travel to the Sakha on Wednesday. 
Spring flooding caused by melting ice is a regular occurrence in some parts of Russia, but heavy rainfall, combined with abnormally warm spring weather, has led to severe flooding in Russia’s Urals and western Siberia over the past two months. 
The rate of forest destruction caused by wildfires in Russia's northern latitudes more than tripled between 2012 and 2021 compared to the previous decade, according to a new study by the Space Research Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS). 
Using satellite data, researchers calculated the extent of woodland devastation due to wildfires in areas above 60 degrees latitude between 2002 and 2021, splitting the period into two separate decades for comparison. 
According to the study's findings, an average of more than 1.2 million hectares of Russia’s northern forests were ravaged by wildfires each year between 2012 and 2021. In the decade before, that figure stood at just 359,000 hectares. 
Researchers attributed the sharp uptick to unusually destructive wildfire seasons in 2020 and 2021. 
The rate of destruction was especially dramatic in Russia's Arctic region, with researchers noting a more than eightfold increase in forest loss there between 2012 and 2021 when compared to the previous decade. 
On average, 100,000 hectares of Arctic forests were ravaged by wildfires each year over that same period, or about 0.2% of the total forest coverage in the northernmost region. 
Northern forests are one of the most crucial carbon sinks and, at the same time, sources of carbon dioxide that plants accumulate during their lifetime and release after death,” the researchers said. 
They stressed the importance of improving wildfire management, as well as how scientists estimate and model carbon emissions that are released into the atmosphere. 
Last year, researchers at RAS found that Siberia’s boreal forests may soon go from serving as a carbon sink” to becoming a net source of emissions, as wildfires have grown in both scale and intensity in recent years. 
Ukrainians held prisoner by Russian and pro-Moscow forces have accused their captors of torture in a series of interviews. 
Paramedic Yuliia Paievska, widely known by her nickname Taira, was captured in mid-March while assisting civilians wounded in an airstrike on a theater in the port city of Mariupol. The city fell to Russian forces in May. 
Paievska had previously gained international recognition after filming bodycam footage of the siege of Mariupol and smuggling it out to journalists. She was released from captivity as part of a small prisoner exchange on June 17. 
I had no food and practically didn’t drink for five days,” Paievska told CNN in an interview published Wednesday, almost three weeks after her release. 
She said that she underwent extreme” beatings that did not stop for even a minute” in a pre-trial detention center in eastern Ukraine’s occupied Donetsk region. 
You’re constantly told that you are a fascist, a Nazi,” said Paievska. 
The paramedic told CNN that her captors put her in solitary confinement with only a metal bunk bed after she refused to confess to various crimes” on camera. 
Previously, Paievska said she was beyond exhausted” after her captivity. 
My weight is now about 50 kilograms,” she wrote in a June 20 Facebook post. 
In a separate video interview published Wednesday, a Ukrainian soldier nicknamed Tork” recounted mistreatment while in captivity in the Donetsk region. 
Tork served with the Azov regiment, a former paramilitary unit with previous links to far-right groups, that has since integrated into the Ukrainian armed forces. 
The unit was involved in the defense of Mariupol’s last holdout, the Azovstal steel plant, which surrendered and ceded control of the city to Russian and pro-Moscow forces in May. 
Tork, who was part of a June 29 prisoner exchange, said in the interview with Azov’s YouTube channel that he was heavily wounded during the siege of Mariupol in April. 
Tork’s captors inserted needles into the prisoners’ wounds if they didn’t like what you said,” he said from a hospital in Ukrainian-controlled territory. 
They literally latched on to two or three guys saying they want information.” 
Tork said that interrogators also targeted senior Azov regiment commanders Denys Redis” Prokopenko and his deputy Sviatoslav Kalyna” Palamar. 
Prokopenko and Palamar are believed to be held in Moscow’s notorious Lefortovo pre-trial detention center. 
The UN’s human rights office said this week it has verified 28 cases of torture, gang rape and threats of sexual violence against prisoners of war in Ukraine, mostly in Russian-controlled territories. 
Appalling reports of torture and ill-treatment by both parties continue, including prisoners of war, with little progress holding those responsible to account,” UN human rights chief Michele Bachelet said. 
The purge of top officers is the result of infighting between the FSB and the military over the failure to capture Kyiv and competition for defense funds. 
The recent arrests of five top Russian military officers are likely just the first of dozens of military figures who will be jailed in a sweeping purge by the security services, Russian government officials and sources close to the Kremlin and the Defense Ministry told The Moscow Times. 
Ostensibly an effort to stamp out military corruption, the Federal Security Service (FSB) is going after high-ranking generals in hopes of pinning the blame for the botched 2022 invasion of Ukraine on the military’s top brass and taking control of the distribution of the army’s vast budget — all with the Kremlin’s tacit approval. 
But the arrests risk throwing the army into disorder at a time when Moscow is seeking to capitalize on Kyiv’s weapons shortages and press further into Ukrainian territory. 
All of The Moscow Times’ sources requested anonymity in order to discuss a sensitive matter involving both the military and the FSB. 
There is a fierce cleanup underway. The FSB is mopping up [former Defense Minister Sergei] Shoigu's team. It’s to be expected. This kind of operation can only be carried out with approval at the very top [of the country's leadership],” a source close to the Kremlin told The Moscow Times. 
The purge appears to be the culmination of wartime infighting and competition for resources between the security services and the Defense Ministry — and marks a victory for the FSB, the successor to the Soviet KGB, in currying ex-KGB agent President Vladimir Putin’s favor. 
There is still a long way to go before the purges are finished. More arrests await us,” he added. 
In the two weeks since longtime defense chief Shoigu’s surprise ouster, four high-ranking officers have been arrested on charges ranging from bribery to abuse of power, the latest of which came late Thursday evening. 
As these arrests gain momentum, they could widen into the largest purges” in modern Russian history, an acting Russian government official told The Moscow Times. 
I think by the end of the year, dozens, maybe hundreds of people of different ranks will be arrested in all Defense Ministry units,” the Russian government official said. 
Security service officers handling corruption investigations had visited the Defense Ministry's headquarters on Frunzenskaya Embankment even before Deputy Defense Minister Timur Ivanov’s arrest went public in late April, a source close to the ministry told The Moscow Times. 
There are more Chekists there [in the Defense Ministry building] now than military personnel, it seems to me,” the source said with sarcasm, using the Soviet-era term for security officials. 
The Kremlin was quick to assert that the arrests were nothing more than the result of ongoing work to root out corruption at every level of the government. 
This is constant and consistent work to fight corruption, not a campaign,” Putin's spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Thursday. 
But even though independent media, the opposition and international observers have reported on the army’s rampant corruption for years — and pro-war bloggers have criticized military graft throughout the war in Ukraine — the arrests of generals only started once it became clear that Shoigu would lose his job. 
Following Ivanov’s arrest, investigators said the probe into his affairs had been underway for over five years, underscoring the fact that the authorities knew about the military’s corruption long before the latest arrests. 
There has been loads of information about corruption schemes in the Defense Ministry, criminal cases have been piled up. But while Shoigu was a minister and had enormous influence, investigators were not allowed to pursue them,” a second government official told The Moscow Times. 
The FSB’s Kremlin-authorized campaign shows that the security services are triumphing” in the confrontation between the two leading wartime security agencies — the army and the FSB — a source close to the Kremlin told The Moscow Times. 
There must be one single party to blame for the failure of the invasion,” the source said. 
It is either the special services, which were engaged in intelligence and analytical preparations for the war and promised Putin a triumphant operation and a quick victory but failed,” he said, or the 'second army of the world' under PR-czar Shoigu which was supposed to ensure Putin's victory — but turned out to be a paper tiger and failed miserably." 
And although last week’s post-inauguration reshuffle saw the removal of both Security Council chief Nikolai Patrushev, the coordinator of the security services, and Shoigu, the head of the military, the FSB has nonetheless won in this standoff. 
In addition, FSB officials could receive promotions and awards for their fight against corruption” in the halls of power. 
The FSB’s task, at most, is to install its own people and control the tastiest things: those areas where there are big budgets,” a second acting government official told The Moscow Times. 
When asked whether the purges could hinder the war effort by throwing the military leadership into disarray at a time when Russia is seeking to take advantage of Kyiv’s munitions shortages, the source said: Do you really think that any of them [the FSB] at this moment are worried about the success of the special operation?” 
A fuel depot caught fire overnight in the Russian village of Volna, close to the bridge to the Crimean peninsula, the local governor said early Wednesday. 
"A tank with petroleum products caught fire in Volna village of Temryuksky district. The fire has been assigned the highest level of severity," Krasnodar region Governor Veniamin Kondratyev said on Telegram, without mentioning the cause of the blaze. 
"According to preliminary information, there are no dead or injured," he said, adding there was no threat to residents. 
"Everything possible is being done so that the fire does not spread further." 
Volna is at the end of the bridge over the Kerch Strait linking Russia to Crimea, which Moscow annexed from Ukraine in 2014. 
In October 2022, the Russian-built bridge was partially destroyed by a truck bomb in an attack Moscow blamed on Ukraine, although Kyiv has denied it. 
The bridge serves as a vital link for transporting supplies to Russian soldiers in Ukraine. 
Russia and Crimea have been the target of a series of attacks in recent days ahead of an expected counteroffensive by Ukrainian forces, although Kyiv has also not claimed responsibility for the incidents. 
A suspected drone attack hit an oil depot in the Crimean port city of Sevastopol on Saturday while explosive devices derailed two Russian freight trains near the border with Ukraine on Monday and Tuesday. 
In southern Ukraine's Kherson region, four people were killed and seven injured in Russian strikes, the regional administration said Wednesday. 
A 66-year-old man was killed overnight by Russian shelling in the village of Kozatske. 
Air raid alerts were sounded in several cities across Ukraine early Wednesday. 
Kyiv was targeted in a drone attack but there were no casualties, the city's military administration said. 
"According to preliminary information, all enemy targets were identified and shot down in the airspace around the capital," it said. 
Ukraine over the winter strengthened its air defenses, including with U.S. Patriot systems after it appealed to Western allies to help fend off Russian attacks on the energy grid. 
Ukraine says it has been preparing for months a counteroffensive aimed at repelling Russian forces from the territory they currently hold in the east and south. 
G7 foreign ministers said Friday they were "gravely concerned" about deepening cooperation between Russia and North Korea, particularly arms transfers from Pyongyang to Moscow for use on the battlefield in Ukraine. 
"We are gravely concerned by the deepening DPRK-Russia cooperation in flagrant violation of multiple United Nations Security Council resolutions," they said in a statement issued by this year's G7 president, Italy. 
"We call on the DPRK [North Korea] and Russia to cease unlawful arms transfers," read the statement, which was also issued on behalf of ministers from South Korea, Australia, New Zealand and the European Union. 
They said recent sanctions by their governments "represent a coordinated effort to hold the DPRK and Russia to account and to impose costs on actors and entities involved in the unlawful transfer of arms from the DPRK to Russia for use in attacking Ukraine." 
A Pentagon report released earlier this week said Russia was using North Korean ballistic missiles in Ukraine, citing debris analysis. South Korea also accuses Pyongyang of sending thousands of containers of munitions to Russia, which would violate rafts of United Nations sanctions on both countries. 
Kim Yo Jong, the powerful sister of North Korean leader Kim Jong Un, denied the allegations earlier this month, calling the claim "absurd." But experts maintain that a recent testing spree, which has seen Pyongyang fire off rockets, cruise and ballistic missiles, may be of weapons destined for use on the battlefield in Ukraine. 
North Korea is barred by UN sanctions from any tests using ballistic technology. But Moscow used its UN Security Council veto in March to effectively end UN monitoring of violations, for which Pyongyang has specifically thanked Russia. 
"By the use of its veto, Russia has sought to deprive all UN member states of the objective and independent information and guidance they need to implement binding Security Council resolutions concerning the DPRK which all remain in effect," the G7 ministers said. 
"We urge the DPRK to respond to the numerous and genuine offers to return to diplomacy, the only path to an enduring peace on the Korean Peninsula," they added. 
Samantha Berkhead is the senior editor for The Moscow Times. She joined The Moscow Times in 2019 and lived in Russia from that year until the invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. At MT, she has reported on everything from Russian women's issues to the Russian Orthodox Church to the resurgent popularity of esoterics. 
This lecture at the Amherst College is part of a series of lectures organized by The Moscow Times at top world universities and given by media professionals and experts on Russia. 
TBILISI, Georgia – Alexei Yermolaev hardly expected that he’d be proposing to his girlfriend Anna Volshuva in the dead of night, surrounded by packed bags. 
It was a few days after the start of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022 and Yermolaev had just bought a one-way ticket to Tbilisi in the South Caucasus nation of Georgia amid rumors of mobilization and martial law. 
Fleeing the country meant he’d be leaving Volshuva behind in St. Petersburg for the time being — and he didn’t want to get on his plane without solidifying his commitment. I didn’t even have a ring,” recalled Yermolaev. 
Despite the circumstances, Volshuva said yes. 
Just over a year later, after Volshuva had followed him to Georgia, the couple were married in Tbilisi. 
Russia’s February 2022 invasion of Ukraine and its partial” mobilization in September sent hundreds of thousands of anti-war Russians fleeing abroad in a hurry. Amid the ongoing disruption and uncertainty, many subsequently decided to tie the knot. 
While such marriages have happened in all the countries where fleeing Russians have settled, Tbilisi has become a matrimonial hub thanks to its relaxed marriage regulations. 
Foreigners wanting to get married in Georgia only need to schedule a registration appointment at a government services building in Tbilisi — known as the House of Justice — provide notarized translations of their passports and show up to the appointment with two witnesses. 
It’s like Las Vegas,” said Volshuva. 
Outside of Tbilisi, there are even civil registration offices that are open 24/7… you just arrive, provide your passports and in two hours you’re married.” 
Although the Georgian government does not release data on the number of foreign couples who register marriages in the country, six newlywed Russian men and women who spoke to The Moscow Times all said they had friends and acquaintances who had also married in the South Caucasus country over the past year. 
In emigration, people are living in conditions of high uncertainty, and they want to devise concrete plans that can keep them going,” said sociolinguist Vlada Baranova, who is part of a team of independent researchers studying the emigration of Russians after the outbreak of the war in Ukraine. 
Without knowing what will happen tomorrow, [emigres] are doing all sorts of things to anchor themselves — it’s absolutely rational for even a young couple to get married in order to receive humanitarian visas and move, to get citizenship somewhere or something similar,” she said. 
Baranova, who now lives and works in Helsinki, Finland, herself got married in Tbilisi after fleeing from Russia to Armenia last year. 
As long as my partner and I lived in the same country, there was never really any reason to get married. But then we realized that, as a legal couple, our lives outside of Russia would probably be made easier.” 
Yermolaev and Volshuva said they had similar motivations when they decided to formalize their partnership in Tbilisi. 
There was so much uncertainty,” Yermolaev told The Moscow Times. We needed to somehow ‘lock in’ our relationship.” 
At Yermolaev and Volshuva’s marriage, they were joined by just three friends. Afterwards, the couple strolled the streets of downtown Tbilisi, enjoying the nighttime ambience, before going for a celebratory glass of wine. 
While some Russian emigres have settled permanently in Georgia, tens of thousands more have stayed for just a few months — ultimately looking to travel further afield to countries in Europe, South America or Southeast Asia. 
For such couples, marriage has been a way to facilitate an onward move. 
All of those who spoke to The Moscow Times said their plans for moving to another country were their primary motivation for getting married. 
For me, it was a kind of insurance for the future,” said Baranova. 
These practical steps are important for building a life in other countries, let’s say, for someone to ensure they receive a visa along with their spouse or maybe even for opening a business together somewhere.” 
Russian couple Alexandra Barmina and Fyodor Veselov — who were married in the fall at Tbilisi’s House of Justice before moving to Germany — said obtaining a marriage certificate was crucial for their relocation. 
The couple received humanitarian visas from Germany — but the nature of Germany’s immigration system means they could, theoretically, have been separated on arrival and sent to different cities if they could not prove their relationship was genuine. 
Maybe I’d be told to go live in Bavaria, and Sasha would go to Nuremberg,” said Veselov. 
We knew that we’d need to get married to avoid that kind of scenario.” 
For the anti-war pair, their marriage in Georgia was simply a way to avoid the possibility of separation — rather than a romantic endeavor. 
We’ve always thought marriage to be this bureaucratic necessity, but nothing more,” said Barmina. 
Our relationship — which has been going on for more than a decade — hasn’t changed.” 
Not everyone getting married in Georgia is doing so with longtime partners. Some got to know their new spouses amid the uncertainty of the war and emigration. 
Activist Yekaterina Alexandrova, who previously worked for Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation, met her now-husband Igor in Tbilisi just a week after she fled her home in Siberia. 
There was already one criminal case against me because of my political connections, and there was the threat that a second case would be opened. I had to leave immediately,” Aleksandrova said. 
But her boyfriend at the time was not ready to pack up his life and move abroad, so they broke up. 
Aleksandrova and Igor married in August after just a few months of dating and, like all the couples interviewed by The Moscow Times, decided to forego the pomp of a wedding ceremony. 
We can always have a wedding later,” said Alexandrova. 
There is no official data on the exact number of Russians who have passed through Georgia, or who are still living in the country. 
However, Georgian President Salome Zurabishvili said last month there were 80,000 Russians residing in Georgia. If accurate, that is significantly less than 112,000 Russians reportedly living in the South Caucasus nation after Russia’s September announcement of a partial” mobilization. 
Yermolaev, who fled from St. Petersburg at the start of the invasion, said he and his now-wife, Volshuva, were planning to relocate to Poland this year if they are able to gather all the needed documents. 
However, the process will likely take many months and involve a lengthy period when they will, again, be living in different places. 
Emotionally, our marriage won't make it any easier for us to be apart for such a long time,” Yermolaev said. 
At least now we know we won't have any issues proving we’re a couple.” 
Law enforcement authorities in the South Caucasus nation of Georgia have arrested a Russian man who attended recent protests against a controversial foreign influence” bill, local media reported Friday. 
Members of the Russian diaspora have joined tens of thousands of Georgians in Tbilisi since April to rally against what has been described as a copycat of Russia’s foreign agent” law. 
The pro-government Imedia news outlet, citing anonymous sources, reported that Russian national Andrei Rautberg is among six violent” protesters who were arrested at demonstrations between mid-April and early May. 
According to his own statement, he has depression and went to the rally with the aim of hurting someone,” Imedia reported without specifying whether its source works for law enforcement. 
The news outlet said that Rautberg is also suspected of engag[ing] in the illegal purchase, storage, and distribution of narcotic drugs,” accusations which he is said to categorically” deny. 
Popular Russian blogger Nikolai Levshits, who writes about life in Georiga, said Rautberg is accused of assaulting a police officer and damaging video surveillance cameras during anti-government demonstrations. The blogger did not say how he had come by that information. 
Rautberg may have fled his native Belgorod region in the fall of 2022 after President Vladimir Putin declared a partial” mobilization of reservists, Levshits wrote on Telegram. 
The Telegram news channel Ostorozhno Novosti reported that the 21-year-old was still in Belgorod as of late 2022 but did not specify when he had arrived in Georgia. 
Thousands of military-age men fled to Georgia following the Kremlin’s announcement of a partial” mobilization in September 2022. Many have since remained in the country. 
There is a major problem at the heart of Georgia’s peculiar political economy. It goes back a quarter of a century. Starting in the 1990s, the late President Edvard Shevardnadze gave foreign aid agencies such leeway that toward the end of his feckless and corrupt rule, the local NGOs they funded became a vocal presence in the country’s politics, all the while maintaining confident relationships with international donors. 
After years of turmoil and state failure, Georgians with deep convictions seized this moment to shape society. It felt fresh and energetic, even though it was driven by social entrepreneurs rather than broad-based grassroots movements. 
After Shevardnadze’s former minister of justice, Mikheil Saakashvili, deposed him in the 2003 Rose Revolution, professionals from NGOs quickly filled senior government posts. The country’s policy space was thrown wide open to any and all foreign-led aid and reform experiments. The calculation behind this was that the net geopolitical and material benefits would far outweigh any drawbacks. 
Consistently high foreign aid flows followed. UN agencies, the World Bank, international development aid groups, and private Western philanthropies opened well-staffed offices in Tbilisi. They needed local NGOs to implement their projects and provide a veneer of working with the community 
Demand creates supply — today, more than 25,000 NGOs are registered in Georgia. According to the Georgian authorities, 90% of their funding comes from abroad. But this average hides the fact that for decades the vast majority of Georgian NGOs have received no local funding. They would probably find the very notion of asking Georgians for money absurd and could hardly win their support in their current form if they tried. 
Foreign aid agencies and their local NGO contractors have long colonized most areas of public policy and services — education, healthcare, judicial reform, rural development, and infrastructure, just to name a few. 
In practice, this plays out something like the following: a major development aid agency or international lender — for example, USAID, the European Commission, or the World Bank — has come up with a new model for education reform, which it plans to roll out in a whole host of countries. 
To give it the appearance of community participation, the aid agency contracts Georgian NGOs to do the everyday footwork, including introducing the program to officials, schools, and teachers, as well as training them in the new skills they are said to require. But at no point does anyone ask teachers, parents, or students — or the electorate for that matter — what they need and want and how they themselves would improve education. People are left feeling unheard, ignored, and patronized — they also feel inadequate when they fail to reach the benchmarks all this training was supposed to help them achieve. 
Georgian NGOs that receive grants to implement this work may be local, but they hold considerable power over the Georgian population. This power comes from their access to Western embassies and resources, but also from the legitimacy this conveys rather than from grassroots support. 
Instead of the Georgian people voting for lawmakers to represent their interests, unelected NGOs get their mandate from international bodies, which draw up and pay for checklists of policy reforms in Georgia. Local NGOs lack an incentive to consider the impact of the projects they implement because they are not accountable to the citizens in whose lives they play such an outsized role. 
This constellation of forces has eroded Georgian citizens’ agency and the country’s sovereignty and democracy. 
However, the new bill on foreign influence transparency” tabled by the Georgian Dream-led government — which attempted to pass similar legislation last year — will not address any of these issues. Nor is it even intended to address them. The Georgian government does not really care about the country’s sovereignty, and neither do the foreign donors, aid agencies, and local NGO elites. 
The ruling Georgian Dream party, which has been in power since 2012, shows no intention to eradicate all foreign funding from the country. Quite the contrary. They are perfectly happy with the continued flow of foreign aid and how the donor-NGO-industrial complex churns out policies and poorly run public services. Georgia’s politics may be notoriously polarized, but Georgian Dream and most of the opposition parties are remarkably unanimous in their belief in technocratic, neoliberal, de-politicized governance, in which policies are designed by supposedly objective (foreign) experts. The more public services can be given over to the market in this way, the better, so they believe. 
One needs only to look at the fate of the 2011 Liberty Act, a landmark piece of legislation that prohibits tax rate hikes and progressive taxation, while also capping government spending at 30% of GDP. Although it was passed into law by Saakashvili, Georgian Dream has not repealed it. So, too, has Transparency International Georgia, one of the country’s most prominent NGOs, (the most partisan of the NGOs leading the protests against Georgian Dream) campaigned to keep the law in place. These political camps may fight tooth and nail over who gets to run the country, but in the end, they all run it in the same way. 
The continued outsourcing of policymaking, governance, and services to foreign donors, local NGOs, and the market suits the tastes of Georgian Dream’s leaders. Many of them studied in the West on Western scholarships and started their careers in UN offices, bilateral aid agencies, and, yes, local NGOs. They are drawn from the NGO-professional-managerial industry, which launched them into the upper-middle-class in a country where academia, medicine, law, science, or entrepreneurship do not afford middle-class status or lifestyles. The resumes and degrees of senior-ranking Georgian Dream officials hardly differ from those of their fiercest opponents in the foreign-financed NGO sector. 
In this ecosystem, it is rare to find someone who genuinely cares about ordinary Georgians and their well-being. The local NGO landscape is deeply competitive and incentivizes sharp elbows and self-promotion rather than collaboration, let alone solidarity. For many industry professionals, working in an NGO is a fast track to the elite class — with high incomes, foreign travel, and receptions at embassies. 
If Georgian Dream backs technocratic, depoliticized, donor-driven governance, all the while maintaining the large, foreign-funded NGO sector it requires, then why would it risk large-scale street protests at home and pressure from Brussels and Washington to pass its so-called foreign influence” law? 
Because on top of the major problem at the heart of Georgia’s political economy lies another, much trickier problem:the small but powerful clique of NGOs with annual budgets of up to millions of dollars from foreign donors — some of them close to the previous government of Saakashvili’s United National Movement — who openly engage in partisan politics. 
For about five years, they have denied the government’s legitimacy and called for its ouster — and not just by supporting the opposition in elections, which already crosses ethical red lines for NGOs (especially when they are funded by foreign states). They agitate for a revolutionary change of power outside democratic, constitutional processes. Previously, they demanded to take over as a technocratic government. But since no one — certainly not the Georgian electorate — followed them up on that offer, these groups have fanned the flames of mass protests in front of parliament and other government buildings. For good measure, they are lobbying the EU and U.S. to sanction Georgian Dream leaders or slap travel bans on them. 
Georgian Dream’s so-called foreign influence” bill — first tabled last spring as a foreign agents” draft legislation — squarely targets this hyper-partisan group of well-funded NGOs. There has been much speculation about why Georgian Dream abandoned its first attempt to pass last year’s aborted bill. One line of thinking suggests the party expects to win with force this time because they see the opposition as weak. Another reason, cited by Georgian Dream itself, is that the government tried to reach an agreement with Western embassies and grantmakers so that they would no longer fund partisan NGOs, or at least moderate their conduct through self-regulation. But this was rebuffed — if not by all, then at least by some key grantmakers. Behind closed doors, Western diplomats admit that the conduct of the partisan NGOs they finance crosses many lines and that something needs to change, but they get defensive when pressed on what they will do about it. 
Where does this leave Georgian civil society? Undoubtedly in a worse-off place. All NGOs receiving foreign funding would face increased scrutiny and would have to perform additional administrative tasks if the foreign influence” bill is passed into law, with some potentially risking fines. NGOs that steered well clear of partisan politics and tried to work according to their core mission and not that of their donors, while also respecting citizens’ agency, will get caught up in a policy that was never aimed at them. Never mind that this law would impose financial transparency requirements on NGOs while the corporate sector faces no such obligation. 
This law will not restore Georgians’ sovereignty — not in any meaningful sense of re-empowering citizens and re-politicizing policymaking. It will probably not even solve the issue of partisan NGOs. It is not just a blunt tool — it is a bad tool. 
At the time of writing, riot police are beating anti-government protesters in Tbilisi and using water cannons and pepper spray against them. Photos of bruises and bloodshot eyes are flooding social media. The political climate and public discourse have sunk to new lows in recent weeks. Georgia’s public sphere has been swept up in lies, hysteria, and manipulation, taking the country further away from reclaiming democracy and building progressive politics. There is a sense, expressed by a thoughtful and heavy-hearted Georgian observer, that whichever way we go is a step back.” 
Frustrating and tedious as it may be, we must cut through the swirling lies and the manipulation to restore a rational conversation. It is galling to see foreign grantmakers lecture the Georgian public with a straight face that there is no such thing as foreign influence tied to foreign money, that donors only want to support a vibrant civil society and would never dream of telling NGOs what they should do. Anyone who is at all familiar with the grantmaking process knows that donors set highly specific rules for which types of organizations, work, and issues they will even consider for funding. 
Activists in Georgia know all too well what is expected of them, as well aswhat kind of behavior is punished and rewarded. Being critical of the government on Facebook will net you more grants than being out in the community helping people. 
A few years ago, when Western donors still considered Georgian Dream a valuable ally, they would tell Georgian activists to stop criticizing the party. Now, they want activists to speak out against them. Donors even monitor activists’ social media profiles, in one author’s experience — and there can be consequences for posting the wrong things. 
The shrill use of the moniker Russian law” is another cynical tactic used by some Georgian activists, opposition politicians, and even Western officials. We are told that the draft law is copied from the Kremlin’s legislation and that it will turn Georgia into a new Russia, or at least dislodge the country from its path of EU integration. But this law is a symptom of specifically and uniquely Georgian political realities. Georgia in 2024 is nothing like Russia in 2012, when the latter adopted its own foreign agents” law. Not politically, in terms of its international alliances, democracy, and the rule of law, and certainly not in terms of the role played by NGOs. The objectives of Russia’s foreign agents” law — which helped pave the way for the near-complete destruction of independent media inside the country — were nothing like those of the Georgian bill. 
Even more absurd are allegations that Georgian Dream and its founder billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili are Russian puppets who introduced the foreign influence” legislation at the instruction of Russian President Vladimir Putin. By this same logic, Putin must have also instructed the party to win EU candidate status and enshrine Euro-Atlantic integration in Georgia’s constitution. But this constant hand-wringing about a Russian law” plays into the Georgian public’s fears and resentments, as well as into Western countries’ geopolitical objectives. 
The most cynical and dangerous game, however, is tying this law to Georgia’s EU accession. Far-away Western observers get teary-eyed about images of Georgians standing up for their vibrant civil society.” But on the ground, protesters say they are not trying to defend NGOs, nor do they care much about them, a view that is backed up by years of polling. Instead, people take to the streets because they have been told that this is a make-or-break moment for Georgia’s future in the EU. 
Georgia’s aspiration for EU membership hits the rawest of all nerves in Georgian politics and culture. After three decades of post-Soviet impoverishment, of lives cut short, pain and trauma, chronic stress, insecurity, and humiliation, the idea of EU membership has become an eschatological project for many Georgians: it represents the promise of salvation after years of unjust suffering and sacrifice. The EU stands not just for dreams — of material well-being, safety, dignity, and comfort — coming true, but for recognizing Georgia as an inherently European” nation. Then again, many Georgians out in the street with their EU flags have less metaphysical concerns. In recent surveys, Georgians rank the opportunity to emigrate as their number one reason for wanting to join the EU. Indeed, more than 5% of the population left between 2021 and 2022, most of them into Europe’s grim shadow economy. 
But whatever the motivation, the prospect of EU membership represents something existential. This has allowed the opposition, its partisan NGO proxies, and their Western donors to manufacture this crisis into a desperate, epic battle for Georgians’ potentially bright future. Worst and most irresponsibly, EU officials have joined in, repeating one after the other that such a law is incompatible with EU norms and values.” Language like this is conveniently vague, unlike actual EU laws, which do not prohibit regulating NGO funding. More recently, an EU spokesperson stated that adoption of a foreign influence” law would go against the EU’s values and expectations,” moving the goalposts into the evermore nebulous territory. 
Fundamentally, the growing suspicion of foreign donors’ motives in funding hyper-partisan NGOs will only be fueled by forcing the government, via escalating threats to Georgia’s EU accession, to continue letting such funding in. This is a game of chicken that could go very dark. In these circumstances, with the fronts hardened and people’s existential fears manipulated, a frank debate about the decades-old problems that led to this draft bill in the first place, and about such a law’s effectiveness and appropriateness, is no longer possible. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Two German construction companies are taking part in rebuilding Russian-occupied Mariupol, the Ukrainian city that fell to Moscow's invading forces two years ago, a German press investigation claimed on Thursday. 
The industrial Knauf group, which manufactures plasterboard, and WKB Systems, which produces aerated concrete, have been providing materials for construction in the city that was almost entirely flattened during the early months of the war, according to the investigation by Monitor magazine and shown on the public ARD television channel. 
Monitor says it has analyzed numerous images from construction sites where the Knauf logo appears, as well as detailed activity reports demonstrating the German company's presence in the port city. 
Mariupol fell to Russian forces after a two-month siege that cost the lives of thousands and left the city in rubble. 
The magazine also quotes an "official distributor" of Knauf's that is promoting a housing project in Mariupol, built with Knauf products on behalf of the Russian Defense Ministry. 
Products from WKB Systems, which is majority-owned by Russian businessman Viktor Budarin, can also be seen at construction sites in Mariupol, the magazine said. 
Knauf, in a statement sent to AFP, insisted it "respects all the EU, U.K. and American sanctions against Russia." 
The Bavarian group runs 14 production sites in Russia where it employs 4,000 people. 
It said its decision not to pull out of Russia — as many major German groups did following the invasion — was out of "responsibility" to its employees. 
Since conquering Mariupol, Russia has published a reconstruction plan for the city, which was home to more than 400,000 Ukrainians before the invasion. 
"Any enterprise participating should ask itself at whose service it is putting itself," Germany's foreign ministry told AFP, describing Russia's reconstruction claim as "propaganda." 
Germany's economy ministry told AFP that authorities needed to determine whether or not the participation of German companies represented "a violation of sanctions." 
Investigators have arrested two German-Russian men on suspicion of spying for Russia and planning attacks in Germany — including on U.S. army targets — to undermine military support for Ukraine, prosecutors said Thursday. 
The pair, identified only as Dieter S. and Alexander J., were arrested in Bayreuth in the southeastern state of Bavaria on Wednesday, federal prosecutors said in a statement. 
The main accused, Dieter S., is alleged to have scouted potential targets for attacks, "including facilities of the U.S. armed forces" stationed in Germany. 
Russia's ambassador to Berlin was summoned by the foreign ministry following the arrests. 
Germany would not "allow Putin to bring his terror to Germany," Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock subsequently said on X. 
But Russian officials rejected the accusations. 
"No evidence was presented to prove the detainees' plans or their possible connection to representatives of Russian structures," the Russian Embassy in Berlin said in a post on X. 
Police have searched both men's homes and places of work. 
They are suspected of "having been active for a foreign intelligence service" in what prosecutors described as a "particularly serious case" of espionage. 
Interior Minister Nancy Faeser likewise called the allegations "a particularly serious case of suspected agent activity for [Vladimir] Putin's criminal regime." 
"We will continue to thwart such threat plans," she said, reiterating Germany's steadfast support for Ukraine. 
U.S. army facilities targeted 
"We will can never accept that espionage activities in Germany take place," Chancellor Olaf Scholz said at a meeting of EU leaders in Brussels. 
According to prosecutors, Dieter S. had been exchanging information with a person linked to Russian intelligence services since October 2023, discussing possible acts of sabotage. 
"The actions were intended, in particular, to undermine the military support provided from Germany to Ukraine against the Russian aggression," prosecutors said. 
The accused allegedly expressed readiness to "commit explosive and arson attacks mainly on military infrastructure and industrial sites in Germany." 
Dieter S. collected information about potential targets, "including facilities of the U.S. armed forces." 
Fellow accused Alexander J. began assisting him from March 2024, they added. 
Dieter S. scouted potential targets by taking photos and videos of military transport and equipment. He then allegedly shared the information with his contact person. 
Der Spiegel magazine reported that the military facilities spied on included the U.S. army base in Grafenwoehr in Bavaria. 
"Among other things, there is an important military training area there where the U.S. army trains Ukrainian soldiers, for example on Abrams battle tanks," Der Spiegel wrote. 
Dieter S. faces an additional charge of belonging to a "foreign terrorist organization." Prosecutors said they suspect he was a fighter in an armed unit of eastern Ukraine's self-proclaimed pro-Russian "People's Republic of Donetsk" in 2014-2016. 
Espionage showdown 
Germany is Ukraine's second-largest supplier of military aid, and news of the spy arrests came as Vice Chancellor Robert Habeck was on a visit to Kyiv. 
"We will continue to provide Ukraine with massive support and will not allow ourselves to be intimidated," Interior Minister Faeser said. 
Germany has been shaken by several cases of alleged spying for Russia since the invasion of Ukraine in 2022, amid suggestions that some German officials have been too sympathetic with Moscow in the past. 
A former German intelligence officer is on trial in Berlin, accused of handing information to Moscow that showed Germany had access to details of Russian mercenary operations in Ukraine. He denies the charges. 
In November 2022, a German man was handed a suspended sentence for passing information to Russian intelligence while serving as a German army reserve officer. 
"We know that the Russian power apparatus is also focusing on our country — we must respond to this threat with resistance and determination," Justice Minister Marco Buschmann said Thursday. 
Russian authorities for their part have leveled treason charges against dozens of people accused of aiding Kyiv and the West since the invasion. 
A Russian court sentenced a resident of Siberia's Omsk region to 12 years in jail earlier this month for trying to pass secrets to the German government in exchange for help moving there. 
Berlin has given Ukraine permission to fire German-delivered weapons at targets in Russia, Chancellor Olaf Scholz's spokesman said Friday, matching a move by the United States. 
Kyiv has the "right under international law to defend itself" against attacks coming from inside Russia, Steffen Hebestreit said in a statement. 
Attacks from Russian territory have increased in recent weeks, in particular around the northeastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv, where Russia's forces launched a surprise ground offensive earlier this month. 
Germany and other Western allies backing Kyiv are "convinced that Ukraine has the right... to defend itself against these attacks," Hebestreit said. "To this end, it can also use the weapons supplied for this purpose... including those supplied by us." 
Germany, Kyiv's biggest military backer behind only the United States, has sent large shipments of military equipment to Ukraine, including heavy artillery and rocket launchers. 
Berlin has up until now been reluctant to allow Ukraine to use German weapons to strike Russian targets for fear of escalating the conflict. 
But with Ukrainian forces coming under increased pressure, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has pleaded with Western allies for more weapons and a freer hand in deploying those already delivered. 
U.S. officials said Thursday that President Joe Biden had lifted restrictions on American-supplied weapons by giving Kyiv permission to strike targets in Russia as it defends the Kharkiv region. 
Sanctions against Russia and their effectiveness have been a hot topic at policy forums since the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. But these discussions, which are mainly focused on geopolitics and macroeconomics, often overlook the impact sanctions are having on international business. 
In a lecture at the University of Cambridge, Nabi Abdullaev, a partner for Russia & Former Soviet Union at Control Risks, examines the issue from multiple sides and asks what keeps CEOs awake at night. 
Abdullaev served as editor-in-chief of The Moscow Times between 2014 and 2015. 
This lecture at the University of Cambridge is part of a series of talks by media professionals and experts on Russia organized by The Moscow Times at leading universities and research centers around the world. 
Ahead of presidential elections next March, a wave of governor dismissals has swept Russia. 
Since the start of the year, President Vladimir Putin has shown the door to 15 regional heads, with an estimated 10 more expected to be axed. Meanwhile, Russian media are trying to keep track of who is coming and who is on their way out. 
Fresh blood 
September alone saw new appointments in Nizhny Novgorod, Samara, Oryol, Krasnoyarsk, Primorye and Dagestan, while the governors of Omsk and Ivanovo are expected to be replaced shortly, according to media reports. 
Interim governors face elections next year to keep their posts and in Primorye in Russia’s Far East and Dagestan in the North Caucasus, local parliaments will have to confirm the posts. 
Independent journalist Kirill Martynov of Novaya Gazeta says the governor purge is linked to presidential elections next March. The Kremlin wants to set up new bastions of influence in the provinces, he says, not only to ensure Putin’s re-election but to exert control over some of Russia's more volatile regions. 
The latest wave of resignations began early this year, when seven heads of Russian regions and republics — Perm, Buryatia, Novgorod and Ryazan and Mari-El, Udmurt and Karelia — left their posts. 
New tradition 
The reshuffle is part of a new tradition, that started about one year ago,” political analyst Yekaterina Schulmann told The Moscow Times. 
It looks good in the news,” she says. It gives the impression that meaningful political action is being taken and it stimulates the elite, not giving them time to relax.” 
When Putin came to power in 2000, he forced through a draft law to remove governors from their seats in the Federation Council, the upper chamber of parliament. In 2004, he announced the end of direct elections of governors. 
Following mass opposition protests in late 2011 and 2012, the elections were brought back by then-President Dmitry Medvedev, although some regions like north Caucasus republics opted to have their leadership elected by the local parliament, under the tight grip of the United Russia party. 
Technocrats or fixers? 
Social media users in Russia have been quick to point out the uncanny similarities between some of the new appointees, describing them as obedient technocrats — a characterization Schulmann disputes. 
It doesn’t matter whether they are young or old, whether they wear glasses or come from the regions," she says. "There is no prototype of the perfect governor.” 
There are regions with certain problems and the Kremlin wants a governor there to fix them,” she explains. 
Clean up 
In many cases, it takes an outsider to be seen as a problem solver. 
Moscow is sending State Duma deputy speaker and United Russia faction leader Vladimir Vasilyev, already 68, to rule the North Caucasus republic of Dagestan. Vasilyev is replacing Ramzan Abdulatipov, an ethnic Avar, who was alternately loved and hated when he struggled with Islamist insurgents, cracked down on Salafist mosques and challenged neighboring Chechen strongman Ramzan Kadyrov. 
He resigned in late September after turning 70, the mandatory retirement age. 
Besides having extensive political experience, Vasilyev is an outsider with no clear affiliation to any of the local clans. 
Vasilyev will follow an old, imperial Russian tradition of the governor-general of some sort,” says Natalya Zubarevich, an economics and social geography professor at Moscow State University. 
It’s unlikely that he will serve a full term,” she told The Moscow Times, but it seems that they ran out of options, and sent a person with a background in the Interior Ministry and the State Duma.” 
The opposite is true of Alexander Uss, speaker of the Krasnoyarsk parliament, who was appointed precisely for his ties with the local elite. He is an experienced politician, a great elite negotiator,” says Zubarevich. He will deliver a solid result.” 
Opportune window 
Rostislav Turovsky, a professor at the Higher School of Economics, told The Moscow Times that the months leading up to the presidential campaign offer a short but opportune time for the Kremlin to make decisions on governors’ replacements.” 
Natalya Zubarevich agrees, adding that replacing a governor offers new hope.” 
A fresh face is not responsible for the mistakes and the mismanagement of his predecessor,” she says. 
With regional elections over and the presidential campaign not until next year, now is an opportunity to get rid of those who, according to the Kremlin, would have been unable to ensure [Putin’s re-election] effectively,” says Turovsky. 
Secondly, it’s an opportunity to configure the elites for the next presidential term and for the stakeholders to advance their interests in the regions,” he added. 
The departing governors have all had one thing in common, says Turovsky: They were all lacking sufficient support at the federal level, and had no big political figure behind them.” 
More to Come 
Other departing governors are Igor Koshin of the Nenets region who will be replaced by Alexander Tsybulsky. Nikolai Merkushkin in Samara has been swapped with former Saratov mayor Dmitry Azarov. Vladimir Miklushevsky of the Primorsky region will be replaced by Andrei Tarasenko. 
Omsk and Novosibirsk are also very likely to see dismissals, RBC reported, because of the high level of protest sentiment there. 
Governors more than likely” to be dismissed include Alexander Karlin in Altai because of internal conflicts among the elite and protests in the region. Viktor Zimin of the republic of Khakasiya and Marina Kovtun in Murmansk are both also predicted to be ousted over corruption scandals. 
Natalia Komarova announced Thursday that she was stepping down after serving 14 years as governor of western Siberia’s oil-rich Khanty-Mansi autonomous district, making her resignation the first in what are seen as regular cadre changes ahead of regional elections. 
I’m completing my work,” Komarova, 68, said in a video address to residents of the region, which lies around 2,000 kilometers northeast of Moscow. I made this decision, I’m moving to another job.” 
Later on Thursday, President Vladimir Putin tapped the mayor of Tyumen, Ruslan Kukharuk, to replace Komarova. Putin named five new acting governors this month to replace those he had promoted to federal office after assuming his fifth term in the Kremlin. 
Khanty-Mansi is among dozens of Russian regions, as well as annexed Crimea, that will hold gubernatorial elections in September. 
A former lower-house State Duma lawmaker for the ruling United Russia party, Komarova was appointed Khanty-Mansi governor in 2010 and re-appointed twice in 2015 and 2020. She was the third-ever woman to govern a federal subject in modern Russia. 
During a meeting with constituents last fall, Komarova was accused by pro-war activists of discrediting” the Russian military for saying we didn’t need” to invade Ukraine in 2022. 
In January 2023, Komarova was caught on a hot mic boasting about an alleged corruption scheme involving state contracts. The regional administration denounced the widely circulated leaked video as an attempt to damage the governor’s image.” 
Updated with Putin’s appointment, Kommersant report. 
Dmitry Azarov announced Friday that he was stepping down as governor of southern Russia’s Samara region, making him the second regional head to resign this week ahead of gubernatorial elections later this year. 
I’ve made a decision to complete my work in the governor’s post,” Azarov said in a video address to residents posted on the Russian social media website Vkontakte. 
The announcement comes a day after Natalia Komarova stepped down as governor of western Siberia’s Khanty-Mansi autonomous district after holding that post for 14 years. President Vladimir Putin named Tyumen mayor Ruslan Kukharuk as her replacement later on Thursday. 
With Azarov’s resignation, Samara will now join Khanty-Mansi and other Russian federal subjects, as well as annexed Crimea, in holding gubernatorial elections in September. Azarov and Komarova’s back-to-back resignations are seen as regular cadre changes ahead of those races. 
Political analysts were widely expecting Azarov’s removal as governor in the near term given his conflicts with both regional and federal officials, namely with lower-house State Duma lawmaker Alexander Khinshtein, whose constituency is in the Samara region. 
Like Komarova, who was accused by pro-war activists of discrediting” the Russian military for saying we didn’t need” to invade Ukraine in 2022, Azarov’s seven-year tenure as governor was plagued by local scandals. 
In 2021, his Instagram account was temporarily blocked after a young woman posted a selfie with him on a private jet with the caption I love him.” The woman claimed that the photo was made as a joke,” according to the Kommersant business daily. 
Following the start of his second term in office last year, authorities charged two senior members of Azarov’s administration with corruption. Two more senior Samara region officials have been reportedly arrested in recent weeks. 
Earlier this month, Azarov was accused of falsely identifying a local official as a concerned resident” who was lobbying to cut down a forest and build a road. 
Putin later on Friday named former Tula region Deputy Governor Vyacheslav Fedorishchev as Azarov’s replacement. 
Kommersant, citing anonymous officials in the Samara region, reported that the former governor has not yet received a new job offer in government, while law enforcement sources suggested Azarov may soon be targeted in a criminal investigation. 
Dutch giant brewer Heineken said Wednesday that it still planned to exit Russia after a media report accusing it of "breaking a promise" to leave over Moscow's invasion of Ukraine. 
Dutch investigative website Follow the Money said the Amsterdam-based brewer was still operating in Russia despite making a promise last year to stop investing. 
Although Heineken did stop selling its namesake beer in Russia, it also launched 61 new products on the Russian market, including at least three types of beer under its Amstel brand, the report said. 
In a statement, Heineken described the reports that the company had broken its promise to leave Russia as "absolutely untrue and misleading." 
Although conceding its Russia-based operation was still running, it was doing so "to prevent nationalization and to ensure that livelihoods are not endangered," it said. 
"We are working hard to secure the transfer of our company in Russia to a reliable buyer under very difficult circumstances," Heineken said. 
The company said it expected a loss of around 300 million euros ($319 million) from the sale. 
"We aim to complete the sale of our Russian business in the first half of 2023," Heineken said. 
Heineken was among major brands including Apple, McDonald's, and others that announced their withdrawal from Russia in the wake of Moscow's invasion of Ukraine a year ago. 
This week in Russia, a man was sentenced to three-and-a-half years in prison after he pleaded guilty to trying to persuade his friend to surrender to the Ukrainian army. Cases like this are on the rise, with over 5,500 desertion cases prosecuted in Russia in 2023 alone. 
Idite Lesom (Get Lost), an NGO founded in Georgia after Russia declared its "partial" mobilization in fall 2022, helps Russians escape from mobilization or from the front lines. In almost two years, Get Lost has helped over 500 conscientious objectors evade service. 
Its founder, Grigory Sverdlin, formerly director of the Nochlezhka homeless aid charity, spoke to The Moscow Times about the organization's work. 
Russia on the Record is a podcast where Moscow Times journalists, independent experts and ordinary Russians reflect, analyze and explain what’s going on in Russia right now. 
Major online retailers in Russia have started selling foreign-made household appliances destined for the Ukrainian market, the business newspaper Kommersant reported Wednesday, citing local distributors. 
Among the e-commerce sites offering products intended for Ukrainian consumers are Ozon and Wildberries, which have been found to sell Bosch washing machines and LG Smart TVs that bear Ukrainian stickers and come with Ukrainian-language instructions, according to the newspaper. 
Dmitry Shashkin, who heads the Russian division of German kitchen appliances maker Kuppersberg, told Kommersant that shipments remained huge since some foreign brands have told their Turkish, Polish and Baltic production plants” to continue supplying the Russian market in order to maintain their positions.” 
Retailers told Kommersant that Ukraine-destined products from companies like Italy’s Delonghi or the Dutch brand Phillipps were being sold through backchannels to Russia amid falling demand in war-torn Ukraine. 
Demand for the purchase of household appliances decreased [in Ukraine], local retailers are refusing to purchase products after the outbreak of armed hostilities [and] emigration from the country,” an anonymous retailer was quoted as saying by the newspaper. 
Following the deluge of Western sanctions and a mass exodus of Western companies in response to the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Moscow introduced a system of parallel imports” that allows foreign-made goods to be sold in Russia without approval from trademark owners. 
As of last month, 2,175 foreign companies remain in Russia compared with 1,610 that left or scaled back operations, according to the Kyiv School of Economics. 
Alexei Navalny, the Kremlin's most prominent domestic critic, died in an Arctic prison on Friday at age 47, sparking outrage and an outpouring of tributes from his supporters while President Vladimir Putin stayed silent. 
We asked people in Moscow to share their reactions to his death. 
Since the beginning of the full-scale invasion, Russia has suffered heavy losses in both personnel and military materiel. The high rate of losses is forcing Moscow to send units into battle with improvised equipment, saving its limited resources until everything else has failed. It is a sign of weakness in the invading forces which can be overlooked by headlines about Russian advances on multiple fronts. 
According to confirmed data from the Oryx project, as of May 1, 2024, Russia has lost 2,006 armored personnel carriers (APC) and armored fighting vehicles (AFV) destroyed, abandoned, or captured. As well as modern Russian armored personnel carriers like the BTR 80, this number includes many Soviet-era vehicles. 
The situation with losses among infantry fighting vehicles is even worse. Since the beginning of the war in Russia, the Ukrainian Defence Forces have taken 3,967 units of equipment out of action, of which 2,879 were destroyed completely. 
Such losses could not but affect the Russian army's supply of combat vehicles. A report from the International Institute of Strategic Studies says that at the start of 2022, Russia had 14,193 armored personnel carriers and infantry fighting vehicles in service. As of May 13, 2024, 42.08% of those had been lost. Furthermore, if we take into account the greater number of losses reported by the General Staff of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, Russia has lost more vehicles than were held in its pre-war inventory. 
In order to compensate for losses on the battlefield, the Kremlin has drawn the large stockpiles of preserved military weapons that Russia was left with after the collapse of the Soviet Union. According to satellite imagery, Russia had about 14,865 armored combat vehicles in storage before the full-scale invasion, at least 4,813 of which are thought to have been withdrawn as of May 2024. 
Even though Russia restores about 185 armored vehicles per month on top of producing new machines, these efforts are unlikely to be enough to cover their monthly losses. According to the losses confirmed by Oryx, the Russian army loses an average of 180 armored vehicles per month, which is likely to be an undercount. 
It is becoming noticeable that fewer armored vehicles are being deployed to the front. Russian command has clearly had to concentrate its most sophisticated weapons and equipment in priority areas. As a result, Russia has been forced to improvise solutions to the shortage of armed vehicles in other combat zones. 
Recently, the Ukrainian army has recorded an increase in the number of assault operations by enemy units on motorcycles, buggies and golf carts or unarmored Ural trucks encased in anti-drone cages. Perhaps emblematic of this is the emergence of the "turtle tank," characterized by a tortoise shell-like casing of improvised armor designed to protect against shrapnel and kamikaze drones. In a strange irony, soldiers have been forced to guard the vehicles that are supposed to protect them. 
At the current rate of losses, Russia may soon exhaust its stocks from the Soviet era, and more modern models of BMP and APC could become rarities on the battlefield in one-and-a-half to two years. This will inevitably have ramifications for Moscow’s battlefield planning. 
A striking example is the current offensive in the Kharkiv region, particularly near the town of Vovchansk. Russia has been forced to limit its use of armored vehicles and has even resorted to requiring light infantry and special forces to do reconnaissance and advance on foot. Only when this fails is equipment sent to support the assault forces, suppress Ukrainian firing positions, and gain further ground. 
General Oleksandr Pavliuk, commander of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, said earlier this month that Russia would check the stability of Ukrainian defense lines before choosing the most favorable direction for an attack. The country’s General Staff was acting on intelligence to counter an attack in the Kharkiv region before the new offensive was launched. The current situation is proving that warnings that Russia would take advantage of the time for long-delayed U.S. aid to arrive at the front lines to escalate their attacks. 
It is in the interests of Ukraine's partners to provide military and financial assistance so Kyiv can continue reducing Moscow’s capabilities to take the war to other European countries. So while the West holds back for fear of escalating the war, they are overlooking how Ukraine has proved that it can weaken Russia, reducing the risk of future escalation altogether. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
After being held up by half a year of partisan infighting in Congress, U.S. President Joe Biden signed a $61 billion package of desperately needed aid for Ukraine, showing that Kyiv’s most vital ally will continue to support its fight against Russia’s invasion — at least for now. 
But while Kyiv has welcomed the news, the six-month delay has allowed Russia to exploit Ukraine’s weakened air defense system to deadly effect. 
Even if promised aid from the U.S. and Europe moves quickly, it will likely not reach the front lines for weeks, giving Russia a window of opportunity it could take advantage of. 
With the front lines barely budging over the past year, the war in the skies has started to take a greater toll, with Russia pummeling cities and infrastructure deep into Ukraine. In April, Russia destroyed the largest power plant in the Kyiv region. According to the most pessimistic estimates, Ukraine’s thermal power plants have lost 85% of their generating potential due to Russian strikes in March and April. 
While Russia did not significantly scale up the number of weapons used in these attacks since December 2023, they were more impactful because Ukrainian forces were unable to intercept them. 
Analysis from the U.S. think-tank Institute for the Study of War found that Ukraine was increasingly failing to intercept even half of Russian missiles since March 22. 
Russian strikes now include a combined package of cruise missiles, drones and ballistic missiles to overwhelm Ukraine’s overstretched air defenses. 
While Shahed drones can be shot down by teams of mobile fire units shooting machine guns and shoulder-launched artillery from the back of pickup trucks, missiles — the fastest of which fly at 10 times the speed of sound — can only be countered with more sophisticated weaponry. 
Moscow has also started to employ cruise missiles equipped with technology that fires decoy flares to misdirect Ukrainian missiles that track the heat signature of their target to hit them. 
Another significant tactical development by Russia is its increased use of glide bombs, which has soared sixteenfold from 2023. These are converted from the plentiful Soviet-era bombs already in Russia’s inventory, which once upgraded with wings and guidance systems can fly 65 kilometers after being dropped from planes behind the front line. 
They proved their effectiveness when Russia captured Avdiivka in the Donetsk region in February. Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro said Russia dropped 700 glide bombs in the six days from March 18, days after a Russian Iskander missile destroyed two Patriot batteries. 
These tactics have forced Kyiv to make difficult decisions about where to deploy its limited resources. 
We’ve seen that as shortages have worsened, Ukraine has had to allocate a lot of its air defense assets to protect large population centers in the rear,” Riley Bailey, an analyst from the Institute for the Study of War, told The Moscow Times. 
That means a lot of the front line is underserved or doesn’t have air defense at all. That lets Russian tactical aviation conduct glide bomb strikes that aren’t accurate, but en masse cause widespread destruction to Ukrainian lines.” 
In Russia’s first response to the bill’s passage through the House of Representatives, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu vowed to step up attacks on logistics centers and storage facilities for Western weapons in Ukraine. Riley said the time it takes for Ukraine's air defenses to be replenished could provide Russia with a window to intensify its attacks. 
It is still unclear whether the U.S. will deliver another Patriot air defense battery to Ukraine, having only sent one so far. Germany, which has already delivered two of its 12 Patriots to Ukraine, has pledged to send another unit, and Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte offered to buy Patriots from countries who were hesitant to part with them. 
These systems are particularly crucial for Ukraine because they can fire ammunition capable of intercepting Russia’s hypersonic missiles, which have been slipping through Ukraine’s air defense net at particularly high rates. 
Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kubela said that ongoing negotiations for four additional units are complicated by countries wanting compensation” for their donation. 
I think the U.S. army probably has one spare,” he said. 
But these systems will be insufficient to build a defensive umbrella over all of Ukraine, the largest country fully within Europe. Analysts say Ukraine will be more able to protect its cities and soldiers if it can strike targets in Russia and the occupied territories. 
Washington has long expressed reluctance to send Ukraine weaponry capable of striking targets in Russian territory for fear of escalating the war. 
But the week before the bill’s passage, the U.S. secretly shipped long-range ATACMS with a range of up to 300 kilometers to Ukraine, who used them to strike troops in the occupied Ukrainian city of Berdiansk on the shores of the Sea of Azov. 
Ukraine previously used long-range weaponry, such as Storm Shadow missiles donated by Britain, to push Russia’s Black Sea Fleet out of Ukrainian waters and destroy submarines that launched missiles toward the country. British Prime Minister Rishi Sunak said Tuesday that his country would provide more of these weapons to Ukraine. 
This fear of escalating the war meant it took Washington until August 2023 to allow Kyiv’s allies to donate F-16 fighter jets to provide cover for Ukrainian ground forces and bolster the country’s air defense. 
Currently, Ukrainian pilots and ground crew are being taught in Romania how to fly and maintain the aircraft. Officials say about 12 pilots could be ready to fly F-16s in combat by July. But only six of the promised 45 jets may have been delivered by that point, less than a full squadron. 
While Zelensky welcomed Denmark and the Netherlands' commitment to be the first countries to donate F-16s to Ukraine as a breakthrough agreement,” other voices have been more cautious. U.S. officials privately said F-16s would not be a game changer due to Russia’s own air defenses and electronic warfare that could interfere with the jets’ radar. 
If Ukraine’s F-16s can survive Russia’s air defenses and has good reconnaissance, it could force Russia’s planes that drop glide bombs toward Kharkiv and Ukrainian soldiers further back from the front line, where the effective range of those weapons will be reduced,” Retired Air Marshal Edward Stringer, who served as director general of Britain’s Joint Force Development, Strategic Command, told The Moscow Times. 
Stringer also said that although donating F-16s was the right decision, they may be less effective over Ukraine than in other NATO missions, where they are deployed as part of a package with other NATO jets to support them. 
Even if these obstacles can be overcome, Ukraine would still be reliant on the U.S. and Europe to produce and supply expensive air-to-air missiles. 
Kharkiv lies just 30 kilometers from Ukraine’s border with Russia, leaving it particularly exposed to missile and drone attacks. Sirens have become an inescapable part of life for the city’s 1.3 million residents — roughly half of its pre-war population — who have opened schools and even a ballet theater underground. 
Residents only have electricity for a few hours each day after Russia destroyed the three power stations that supply the city. Russia has started to time its attacks to coincide with these power outages, forcing residents to wait in agony for cellphone signal to resume so they can reach their loved ones. 
Ukrainian officials have voiced concerns that Russia is intensifying its bombardment of Kharkiv, as well as spreading propaganda, to make the city unlivable. Russian officials have signaled their intention to create a buffer zone along Ukraine's northern border. 
Ada Wordsworth, head of the KHARPP NGO which supports Kharkiv region villages, told The Moscow Times that people felt a huge sense of relief at the news that more U.S. support was on the way. 
However, this relief comes with a fair amount of resentment because of how long it has taken, and how many lives — civilian and military — have been lost,” she said. 
There's also a limited hope for the impact this funding will have in terms of protecting the sky over cities like Kharkiv, which are so close to the Russian border, unless Ukraine is allowed to use these weapons to strike Russian territory,” something Washington has said it does not support. 
Whether Kyiv’s allies can continue supplying weapons to Ukraine heavily depends on their ability to manufacture expensive equipment. 
Despite international sanctions, Russia has managed to secure millions of munitions from North Korea and Iran, as well as shoring up its domestic production and refitting older equipment. Though Ukraine fired more artillery than Russia in the summer of 2023, delays in aid and Russia’s relatively strong production have allowed Moscow’s forces to fire six shells per every one Ukraine can muster. 
I think Europe missed the geostrategic moment two years ago,” Stringer told The Moscow Times. Had our leaders had the appropriate depth and seriousness of thought, they would have looked at our defense industrial base and ramped up our own production. I think the fact they recognized there was a problem but did not do anything to solve it makes it worse.” 
Everyone, except perhaps Putin himself, understands that his regime is nearing its end. At the very least, discussions about the country’s future are being conducted in Russia as if neither Putin nor his system still existed. The question is: How exactly will the regime collapse? 
For a long time, the hope was that elections would bring down the government, even though Russia hasn’t had real elections in at least 15 years. But some still hoped that even a small number of independent deputies might change the atmosphere within the country, while others believed that elections might overturn the regime. None of this is currently possible. 
The Kremlin has made the situation impossible for nearly all opposition politicians, jailing them or barring them from running for office on preposterous grounds. The referendum to change the constitution and extend Putin’s reign endlessly showed even the most optimistic observers that the regime does not care what anyone thinks, and that if it excels at anything, it’s falsifying election results. Any election under Putin can only be a farce. 
There was also a hope (and, simultaneously, a fear) that the regime would succumb to a revolution, that perhaps the people would lose their patience and topple the government, and that the security forces would not dare to go up against hundreds of thousands of protesters. However, the events of the past nine months have made talk of a revolution sound like fantasy. 
Now Putin is at war” with the United States and NATO, two entities the majority of Russians see as enemies. Now Putin’s opponents are not seen as being on the side of the people but rather on the side of the United States, and therefore they cannot count on popular support. Together with the regime’s willingness to use force, this makes a revolution in the foreseeable future impossible. 
At the same time, the regime has no chance of survival in its current form. The lack of a path to victory not only in Ukraine but in general, the absence of a vision for the future, the depletion of moral and political resources, the inability to exist in conditions of isolation, and the emigration of large segments of the population all make changes inevitable. Ukrainian military strikes and Western sanctions will not allow the system to infinitely prolong its demise. 
There is, of course, a possibility of nuclear war, but setting aside the scenario of global apocalypse, there are only two somewhat realistic scenarios for the end of the Putin regime: one is horrific and the other has little to do with democracy, but at least gives Russia a chance at a future. 
The first scenario is the rapid collapse of the Russian government. Essentially, the government is already in decline: it is clearly losing control, orders are not being followed or — as in the case of mobilization — being followed in such an unorthodox manner that negative consequences far exceed positive outcomes for the regime. 
However, Ukraine’s counteroffensive and growing socioeconomic problems could create a snowball effect, and all stability could be lost. This has already happened once: in the last days of the Soviet Union when Mikhail Gorbachev was issuing decree after decree, which no one had any intention of following, and which he had no way of enforcing. 
Back then, there were institutions that stepped in and prevented chaos: the party organizations of multiple republics and in the Russian regions, Boris Yeltsin’s team, and the new institutions of power in the Baltic republics. Contemporary Russia has no such institutions. 
This means that a rapid collapse of the regime would inevitably result in a free-for-all: military formations with various leaders would clash; Putin’s footmen” — Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov and Wagner Group founder Yevgeny Prigozhin — would enter the fray along with their fighters, and other regional structures headed by ambitious generals and governors would join in the fighting. The level of violence and bloodshed would be unimaginable; it would be apocalyptic. 
A less terrifying scenario is a palace coup.” This does not necessarily have to be an assassination. It is possible that Putin could be ousted or convinced to step down from power. His entourage certainly understands that he forced the country — and, what they care more about, them personally — into a dead end. Their main problem isn’t Ukraine or Russia, but rather their ability to personally reconcile with the West and regain their ability to use their assets and bank accounts. Putin’s entourage understands that as long as Putin is in power, they will never be able to do this. 
There is a chance, especially in the event of large-scale military losses, that several of Putin’s most trusted advisers might offer him an exit strategy. Perhaps some minor figure who would be easy to manipulate could be appointed president. This nominal leader would be tasked with ending the war, making all possible concessions to the West, and thus buying forgiveness” for Putin’s inner circle. The West would most likely cooperate in the interest of preventing World War III. 
We don’t know whether there are people in Putin’s inner circle who are brave enough to bring him such a proposal as he's been surrounding himself with spineless yes-men for years. We also don’t know whether Putin would accept such an offer, especially since former Kazakh president Nursultan Nazarbayev — who was convinced that he would be able to maintain his influence when he handed over the presidency to Kassym-Jomart Tokayev, a man he trusted and considered close — lost all power and influence in the span of just a week when Tokayev asserted his independence. Now even Nazarbayev’s very freedom and life depend on Tokayev. 
An even more frightening example for Putin is that of former Yugoslav president Slobodan Milošević, whose own people sent him to be tried in The Hague. 
Anyone in Putin’s inner circle daring to approach the president with a proposition to step down would also need to be someone prepared to take further measures should the proposal not be accepted. Otherwise, I fear that our country’s chances of survival are nil. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
The political movement created and led by Alexei Navalny helped bring environmental issues to the forefront in Russia — and could have played a key role in their future progress if the opposition politician had not died, experts and activists told The Moscow Times. 
While climate change and the environment were not the anti-corruption activist’s primary focuses, Navalny and his team gave attention to environmental problems at a time when other political actors ignored them. 
At a certain point, Navalny and the entire group around him became the only reasonable people in politics to whom you could turn with any serious issue,” Vladimir Slivyak, co-chairman of the environmental group Ecodefense, told The Moscow Times. 
As press freedom in Russia gradually deteriorated after President Vladimir Putin’s return to the presidency in 2012, Navalny’s media platforms — which reached millions of viewers — became in some cases a last resort for environmentalists to draw attention to their cause. 
It became clear that potentially more people could watch a program on Navalny’s [YouTube] channel than some program on Perviy Kanal [state broadcaster],” said Slivyak, who was personally acquainted with Navalny before he gained widespread recognition. 
Of course, like any other normal politicians, they won't rush to help with every little thing. But if you bring something truly serious and say, ‘Here, we need help,’ they would help. And that made them very valuable.” 
Loudspeaker of truth 
In a country constantly grappling with environmental challenges, Navalny and his Anti-Corruption Foundation (ACF) picked up hot environmental issues that garnered significant public attention. 
Following a huge oil spill at a facility operated by metals giant Norilsk Nickel in May 2020, Navalny criticized the lack of responsibility and transparency in the management of the disaster by the company's owner, oligarch Vladimir Potanin. 
We all need to keep a close eye on the story of Norilsk Nickel — it's not just about ecology, it’s a political matter,” Navalny said in July 2020. There's a super-rich person who doesn't want to pay a single penny when he pollutes the entire Arctic around him.” 
The politician also highlighted catastrophic Siberian wildfires in May 2019, criticizing the authorities and state media for inaction. 
Our [Russian] news focuses more on fires in California when … celebrity homes are at risk. But they say nothing about the fires in Siberia,” Navalny said during a YouTube livestream. 
Every year Siberia is on fire, and every year the federal government doesn't give a damn." 
Seeking to shed light on depleted uranium imports, Navalny's team once approached a major environmental organization in Russia for more information, an environmental activist who requested anonymity due to their affiliation with a group previously targeted by the authorities told The Moscow Times. 
The ACF’s groundbreaking investigations touched on subjects such as land grabs or violence against environmentalists, both of which were featured in a 2021 film about Putin’s alleged palace on the Black Sea coast. 
It’s not that Navalny did it because he was concerned about the destruction of ecosystems,” Vitaly Servetnik, a representative of the Environmental Crisis Group, a project supporting Russian environmental defenders, told The Moscow Times. 
But various corrupt seizures of territories and their exploitation undoubtedly intersect with the environmental agenda even if there was no intention to look at it that way,” Servetnik said. 
The far-flung network of over 80 regional offices — shtaby in Russian — created by Navalny’s team during his presidential campaign in 2017 empowered people to voice their environmental concerns. 
In Russia’s atomized society, this enabled people to unite in addressing problems, with the shtaby bringing together about 200,000 people. 
Some of Navalny's regional coordinators were also active environmentalists, like Andrei Borovikov, an activist in the Shiyes garbage protests in the Arkhangelsk region, or Alexei Shvarts, who opposed uranium mining in the Kurgan region. 
Navalny himself spoke at a rally against the construction of a mineral processing plant in Chelyabinsk in 2017, blasting the authorities’ plans to "profit by selling the health of its citizens." 
Shtaby invited [environmental] activists to talk about their issues, and in regions, activists sought assistance from the shtaby,” Servetnik recalled. 
As the most vibrant political force, [Navalny’s team] was most responsive to grassroots needs. And it's normal because if it's an attempt to build a real party and not some imitation, then you have to respond to those local problems.” 
But as the Kremlin tightened its grip on Navalny and his allies, Russia’s environmental defenders faced a dilemma over whether to engage with the prominent Putin critic, worrying he could do more harm than good to their cause. 
Some environmentalists believe that bringing their agenda up into the political arena carries risks and is better to be avoided,” Servetnik said. 
I think that if we want more than just to preserve a single flower or sort garbage into bins, it is indeed a political issue. However, at some point, the connection with Navalny carried more risks than opportunities," the expert noted. 
Beyond populism 
In Russia, where climate change has historically been a low priority for the public, Navalny and his team occasionally raised the unpopular issue — even though it was not primarily their job, but that of activists, Slivyak said. 
When Greta Thunberg faced a backlash in Russia after her emotional speech at the 2019 UN climate action summit, Navalny spoke out in defense of the renowned Swedish climate activist and her cause. 
I was very surprised that everyone in Russia hates Greta Thunberg,” Navalny said in September 2019. But if you're against this Greta, then are you defending Russia’s oil-coal present? Because … we simply dig something from the ground, then burn it with hellish soot, and with this, we heat and generate electricity.” 
He continued by explaining the scientific consensus on manmade climate change, slamming Russia’s climate skeptics and emphasizing the need for more space for environmental issues in the country’s political agenda. 
We're [in Russia] trying to meet our basic needs according to Maslow's hierarchy, at least to earn a salary of 20,000 rubles [$300 in 2019]. And only then do we start thinking about the environment — that's how it seems to us. Although it's completely wrong,” Navalny added. 
In the absence of clear public demand for climate action, partly due to media propaganda sponsored by the oil and gas industry, it was significant for a politician in Russia to even talk about climate change, Slivyak said. 
I don't know who else spoke like that. I haven't heard any other politicians from any spectrum in Russia being so bold and independent in their judgments that they could afford to come out and say like that.” 
As Russian society and its understanding of the climate crisis gradually evolved, Navalny’s team had the potential to bring this issue to the forefront — unlike many other rigid political forces," Servetnik said. 
Although Navalny’s 2018 presidential platform did not contain a specific environmental agenda, Slivyak said he believes it would have "absolutely for sure" appeared on his 2024 platform — if the renowned opposition leader had been alive and free. 
Navalny was a serious politician in this regard,” Slivyak said. 
He spoke not only about what people wanted to hear but also about things that might not be very popular but were important in his own opinion.” 
While President Vladimir Putin’s recent inauguration was not followed by a major reshuffle in the Kremlin, there were some important personnel changes. Nikolai Patrushev was moved from head of the Security Council to the much narrower role of presidential aide, which looks like a demotion for a man once considered the most powerful security official in Russia. What should be made of his appointment? 
Within the Russian political system, different people in Putin’s entourage and in the Kremlin more broadly play different roles. Some are technocrats with highly specialized knowledge. Belousov’s experience as a skilled economic manager will equip him to oversee Russia’s enormous military spending, which officially amounts to 6.7% of GDP. 
Others, like Shoigu, bank on their absolute loyalty to Putin. As a political heavyweight, he could not have been disposed of easily, so he was moved to another important role. 
Others are ideologues who articulate a coherent worldview that serves both as a blueprint for propaganda and as a basis for Putin’s thinking. One such person is Yuri Kovalchuk, a media manager and longtime friend of Putin’s who reportedly had his ear in the months leading up to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in 2022. Patrushev is another. 
A former KGB officer, Patrushev served as director of the FSB from 1999 to 2008, and as head of the Security Council from 2008 to 2024. Before 2014, his infrequent press interviews resembled bureaucratic reports on the various activities of the Security Council. His anti-Western rhetoric at this time was quite moderate and limited to criticism of NATO expansion. However, since 2014, his interviews have become more frequent and their tone (as well as content) has changed dramatically. 
Patrushev began to paint a picture of the West as Russia’s eternal enemy, bent on its total destruction, saying they would prefer Russia not to exist at all”. He saw the West as being behind everything from global terrorism to the so-called color revolutions in countries neighboring Russia. As the years passed, he went further and further down the conspiracy rabbit hole, expressing support for the golden billion theory and suspecting the U.S. of having engineered the Covid-19 pandemic. 
The change in Patrushev’s rhetoric reflects Russia’s situation after 2014. It is unlikely that his conspiratorial views developed suddenly. Rather, he finally felt that it was possible at that time to express them publicly. Before then, imperial nationalism with a paranoid, conspiracy streak was present in the Kremlin, but not dominant. It had not yet fully gripped Putin, 
Within the political system, Patrushev's Security Council was an important but not pre-eminent institution, sharing influence with the ‘civilian’ part of the presidential administration as well as the government and Putin's oligarchic entourage. After 2014, however, conspiracy nationalism took center stage, and the Security Council rose to become the most influential political institution in Russia. Putin himself began to express views similar to Patrushev’s. 
In this context, does Patrushev’s demotion mean that the paranoid style” of Russian politics is finally giving way to something new? I believe the opposite is the case. In the years before and after the invasion of Ukraine, Putin fully assimilated Patrushev’s thinking into his own rhetoric. His recent speeches on the centuries-old Russophobia of Western elites” are indistinguishable from Patrushev’s interviews. In effect, there is no need to keep Patrushev as the ideologue-in-chief, as that was a role Putin assumed himself. 
During his 24 years in power, Putin has fulfilled many functions. He acted as an arbiter in intra-elite conflicts, created a gigantic pyramid of patronage and material rewards, and used PR stunts to bolster the regime’s legitimacy. He interacted with countless heads of state, and commanded Russian troops in wars from Africa and the Middle East to Europe and the Caucasus. 
Now, however, all of these activities are subordinated to Putin’s all-encompassing ideology complete with a sense of Russia’s historical mission and an image of the West as Russia’s eternal enemy and a nefarious force behind the world’s many ills. This grand ideological vision shapes Putin’s entire thinking. 
Putin clearly prefers to keep Patrushev and other conspiracists, such as Kovalchuk, close. He needs them to reiterate and confirm what he already believes in. However, he no longer needs a special institution – the Security Council – to articulate an ideological vision of Russia’s national interests as he took on this job. With Shoigu at the helm, the Security Council will likely become another technical institution, similar to the Russian government – meeting regularly and overseeing every aspect of Russia’s war effort in conjunction with Gerasimov’s General Staff and Belousov’s defense ministry. 
For Patrushev himself, however, Putin may have reserved a special role, as his new and ridiculous title – a presidential aide for shipbuilding – indirectly suggests. Behind this façade, there might be a task of interacting with the Western national security establishment (something Patrushev has done before). Putin would trust Patrushev to do this job precisely because of their shared ideological thinking. 
Furthermore, Patrushev remains in Russian politics as the head of a family clan. His son Dmitry has assumed the position of deputy prime minister – the highest position yet occupied by a child of Putin’s close associate. Since the Kremlin’s grand ideological vision requires a new nobility to implement it, the conspiracists may remain in charge of the Kremlin long after Putin and Patrushev are gone. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
When Central African Republic (CAR) pleaded for help last year to fight marauding militias, former colonial ruler France offered guns it had seized off Somalia. But Russia objected and donated its own weapons instead. 
By early February, Russia had sent nine planes with weapons along with dozens of contractors to train local soldiers and secure mining projects, marking the start of its highest-profile military foray in sub-Saharan Africa for decades. 
Muscling in on a country dominated by France for years served as a statement of intent about Moscow’s renewed push for global prestige and influence, and is part of a wider campaign shaking up long-standing power dynamics on the continent. 
Since Western nations sanctioned Russia for annexing Crimea in 2014, Moscow has signed 19 military cooperation deals in sub-Saharan Africa, including with Ethiopia, Nigeria and Zimbabwe, according to its foreign and defense ministries and state media. 
The continent’s 54 member states at the United Nations – three of which sit on the Security Council at any given time – form the organisation’s largest voting bloc and one of its most coherent, making them attractive allies for Russia. 
The West is not very much loved by many countries. And many (see) Russia as the country that will oppose the West,” said Dmitri Bondarenko, an anthropologist and historian at Russia’s Institute for African Studies. 
Besides sending arms and contractors to CAR, Russian national Valery Zakharov is a security adviser to President Faustin-Archange Touadera and Russia’s defense ministry said last week it planned to establish a five-person team at CAR’s defense ministry. 
Russia’s moves come at a time when the defense ministry’s influence over Kremlin foreign policy is growing against a backdrop of heightened tension with the West. 
Seized Weapons 
When CAR made its plea in 2017, there was recognition that a spike in ethnic fighting could turn into a far larger conflict and that its security forces were too weak to tackle myriad armed groups. 
CAR has been under a U.N. arms embargo since 2013 so weapons shipments must be approved by the U.N. Security Council’s CAR sanctions committee, made up of the Council’s 15 members, including France and Russia. It operates by consensus. 
France first offered to help CAR buy old weapons but the proposal was too expensive. France then offered 1,400 AK47 assault rifles it had seized off Somalia in 2016, according to a Security Council memo and four diplomats. 
Russia objected on the grounds that weapons seized for breaching the U.N. arms embargo on Somalia could not be recycled for use in another country under embargo, two diplomats said. 
But mindful of the need for a quick solution, the sanctions committee approved Moscow’s donation of AK47s, sniper rifles, machineguns and grenade launchers in December, according to committee documents and diplomats. 
We presented our problem and Russia offered to help us, subject to Security Council approval,” said Albert Yaloke Mokpeme, CAR’s presidential spokesman. If peace is restored tomorrow in CAR, I think everyone will be happy.” 
Russia’s foreign ministry did not respond to requests for comment about committee proceedings. 
France’s foreign ministry said Russia must strictly respect the terms of its arms embargo exemption to keep the weapons out of the wrong hands. 
‘We’re not interested’ 
During the Cold War, the Soviet Union forged close military and diplomatic ties with many African countries. It was involved in proxy wars in states such as Angola, Ethiopia and Mozambique and helped independence movements fight Western colonial powers. 
Russia is now trying to revive some of the relationships that lapsed after the Soviet Union’s collapse. It joins a number of countries such as Turkey and the United Arab Emirates looking to set up bases in Africa, mediate in diplomatic stand-offs and strike business deals. 
China has long had a major economic presence in Africa but it has shied away from any military involvement. It did go a step further last year, however, opening its first military base outside China in Djibouti. 
Near the world’s busiest shipping lanes, Djibouti is also home to a large French base, the only U.S. base in Africa, an Italian camp and Japan’s only overseas base. 
Djibouti blocked Russian attempts to set up a base, however, saying it wanted to avoid becoming the terrain for a proxy war. Moscow is now planning to build a logistics centre at a port in neighbouring Eritrea. 
While France has a military bases outside Djibouti in former colonies Gabon, Ivory Coast and Senegal and its soldiers also operate in Chad, Mali and Niger, analysts say Washington’s influence is on the wane. 
Its trade with the continent has halved in the past decade, though much of that is due to U.S. shale replacing oil imports from Africa. Diplomatic posts have gone unfilled and a task force based in CAR tracking warlord Joseph Kony left last year. 
Our actions on the diplomatic and military side have sent a huge signal to our partners that we’re not interested in Africa,” said Donald Bolduc, who commanded U.S. special forces across the continent until last year. 
U.S. Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs Tibor Nagy said Washington’s commitment to Africa was unwavering but, there is space for other countries to play a positive role in the region”. 
African Deals 
As part of Russia’s renewed push, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov went on a five-nation tour of Africa in March, attended a summit in South Africa in June and visited Rwanda, chair of the African Union, this year. 
Russia has also struck military cooperation deals with many African countries since 2015, though some have yet to come into force. The agreements typically involve providing weapons and training in areas such as counter-terrorism and piracy. 
Analysts caution that the deals often appear more symbolic than transformative and say it’s not clear if Russia has the resources, or desire, to continue expanding its presence. 
But as in the Cold War, military deals can come alongside economic links, such as mining and energy agreements. Ethiopia signed its deal in April, a month after Lavrov visited to discuss nuclear energy, agriculture and transportation projects. 
Russian firms have signed mineral deals in Sudan, which cooperates with Moscow in defence technology, and Russia is looking at diamond and platinum projects in Zimbabwe as well as energy projects in Chad. 
Over the past decade, Russian trade with sub-Saharan Africa has increased fast, albeit from a low base. From 2010-2017, total trade rose to $4.2 billion a year from $1.6 billion, according to the Center for Strategic & International Studies. 
During the same period, China’s total trade with sub-Saharan Africa nearly doubled to $165 billion while U.S. trade more than halved to $37 billion. 
Wagner Group 
Since arriving in CAR, the Russians’ remit has expanded beyond military advice and into various economic and diplomatic activities, a Western diplomat and security source said, fuelling the beginnings of a Western backlash. 
In August, France, the United Kingdom and the United States blocked a Russian request to send more weapons. The U.S. mission to the United Nations said in a note to the sanctions committee that it was awaiting, confirmation that measures had been taken to ensure the secure management of the previous donation”. 
Estimates of the number of Russians in CAR vary widely, from 250 to 1,000. Touadera’s spokesman declined to provide details, nor say what activities the Russians were engaged in. 
Yevgeny Shabayev, head of a chapter of a paramilitary Cossack organisation who has ties to Russian security contractors, said there could be 1,000 in CAR and 5,000 to 10,000 across Africa, including in Sudan, South Sudan and Libya. 
One Russian private military contractor, the Wagner group, was thrust into the spotlight in July when three Russian journalists were killed in CAR while investigating its alleged presence there. 
Reuters has been unable to confirm whether Wagner contractors are in CAR. People with ties to the group have told Reuters it has carried out clandestine combat missions on the Kremlin’s behalf in Ukraine and Syria. 
Russian authorities deny Wagner contractors carry out their orders. They have denied any role in the journalists’ deaths. 
Russia has also stepped into negotiations with militias in CAR, adding to Western misgivings about its presence. 
According to a U.N. panel of experts, Touadera’s Russian adviser has met militia leaders several times to discuss disarmament and the distribution of natural resources revenue. 
Russia said in August after brokering talks between armed groups that Touadera had expressed gratitude for its involvement and that it intended to continue its mediation. 
Reuters was unable to contact the adviser, Zakharov, for comment. 
There is a real division between that guy and the rest of the presidential advisers,” the security source said. When you ask, ‘Can we see your colleague?’ they say, ‘Who, our colleague? We don’t know him’.” 
Russia is likely to keep banking on various coercion tactics to bolster its military manpower in Ukraine, experts say, a strategy that has proven effective at ensuring a continuous supply of fresh recruits to the front lines for the past two years. 
The Russian military has been pushing to capture more Ukrainian territory this month as Kyiv has waited for the latest U.S. military aid package and other promised Western support to materialize on the battlefield, fueling rumors among Russians that Moscow may be planning a new wave of mobilization. 
Rights activists told The Moscow Times that a formal mobilization announcement remains unlikely after its partial” mobilization of reservists in fall 2022 sparked protests and a mass exodus of draft-eligible men. 
In fact, though the Defense Ministry said it had met its stated quota in the fall 2022 mobilization, the mobilization process itself has never ended,” said lawyer Alexei Tabalov, the head of conscripts’ rights NGO Shkola Prizyvnika. 
If we define mobilization strictly according to the law, then it means conscription of citizens listed in reserve for military service. But in a wider sense, mobilization is…simply the recruitment [of soldiers] for the front lines,” Tabalov explained. 
When the Kremlin first announced the September 2022 partial” mobilization, [officials] didn’t think about the consequences and went head first,” Tabalov told The Moscow Times. 
Now, after facing the public backlash, the resistance and the resentment, [the authorities] are acting in a more skillful and calculated way, sending to the front line those who want it and those who can’t refuse.” 
In the first few months of the partial” mobilization, the Defense Ministry largely banked on recruiting convicts — who were promised pardons and high salaries in exchange for their service — and tricking former migrant workers who recently acquired Russian citizenship into signing military contracts. 
Since then, the Defense Ministry has set its sights on men undergoing their compulsory military training even though Russian law prohibits deploying these conscripts to combat zones. 
They are being recruited after half a year of service, when they already have some basic skills,” said Tabalov. 
Many of these conscripts are lured to enlist by high salaries and social benefits. Others are subjected to physical violence and intimidation. 
Last year, Andrei Lazhiev, a native of the republic of Karelia, sustained a fatal head injury while undergoing compulsory military service in annexed Crimea. Lazhiev’s family maintains that their son was severely beaten because he refused to sign a military contract. 
The tactics of luring [men] into signing a contract change constantly,” said Ivan Chuvilyaev of Idite Lesom (Get Lost), a civic initiative helping Russian conscientious objectors. I would compare it with [repeatedly] throwing a net to check who can get caught in it.” 
Russian military volunteers are promised a monthly salary upwards of 200,000 rubles ($2,100) upon enlisting, at least three times higher than the national average. 
For many men — particularly those from economically disadvantaged regions — these sums of money and social benefit packages are a good enough reason to go to war. 
For now, there are people in Russia who are ready to go [to war] for money. Their number is decreasing, but they are there,” said lawyer Tabalov. While they exist, there is no need for widespread mobilization.” 
But military volunteers stationed on the front lines and those who return home due to combat‐related injury frequently complain that they have not received the monetary rewards that were promised. 
Some military volunteers and mobilized men from the Russian Far East said they received only about 5% of their promised payments this month, the Ostorozhno Novosti news channel on Telegram reported Tuesday. 
Men who hesitate to enlist for fear of dying on the frontlines are being tricked with promises of keeping their civilian professions while working for the Defense Ministry, human rights activists say. 
The typical story [goes]: There is a man working as a restaurant cook…and an acquaintance tells him that he can go and serve as a cook in the army instead, where he will receive a good salary…and all the benefits that soldiers in combat get,” Chuvilyaev explained. 
It shouldn’t be assumed that only people of working-class jobs like a cook or a tractor driver were lured in. We also had a case of a journalist who was promised work in the Defense Ministry press service [but was deployed to fight on the frontlines in Ukraine],” Chuvilyaev added. 
In the country's regions beyond Moscow and St. Petersburg, regional officials target men from disadvantaged backgrounds, debtors and those with a history of misdemeanor offenses by threatening them with lengthy jail terms on fabricated charges — all in an attempt to fulfill Kremlin-imposed regional quotas on recruitment of military volunteers. 
While the war has faded into the background of many Russians’ lives, men often join the army on an impulse fueled by exposure to propaganda — which brands military service as a real man’s job” — or merely a wish to escape personal problems. 
There are more and more people who decide to sign the contract on a momentary impulse and then change their mind. A man might have a fight with his wife and go [sign a contract] to spite her or get drunk and sign the contract under the influence,” said Tabalov of Shkola Prizyvnika. 
These stories might sound absurd, but there are many of them.” 
The name Saltanat means triumph” in Kazakh. In posthumously published footage a beautiful, vibrant, cheerful young woman can be seen celebrating life and dancing in slow motion. Her warm gaze and Hollywood smile are already beloved by people around the world. The fragile girl in these images does not yet know that she will die or that she will rise as a symbol of the fight against domestic violence. 
This is a persistent and almost indelible disease in Kazakhstan, a sore that is unpleasant to talk about publicly. And by some terrible chance, this woman, Saltanat Nukenova, has become a symbol of hope — not just in Kazakhstan, but in any place around the world where people demand justice for every hurt soul. 
In November 2023, the news that former national economy minister Kuandyk Bishimbayev, 43, allegedly beat to death Saltanat, his 31-year-old wife, in the VIP room of his own restaurant in Astana exploded like a bomb. 
Millions of people across Kazakhstan and other post-Soviet states have been transfixed by the live-streamed trial for Saltanat’s murder. This streaming of the trial is an unprecedented case in the history of the country’s independence. 
If you go into the comments during the YouTube or Instagram broadcast of the court hearings, you can see messages alongside flags of various countries: "Russia is with you," "Ukraine stands for Saltanat," "Yerevan [Armenia] is for you here,” "The whole world is watching too." When parts of the trial are only in Kazakh, people ask for Russian translations so they can follow along. Rallies in support of Saltanat's family and against domestic violence have already taken place in New York, Berlin, London, and several cities in Italy. Under the hashtag "forSaltanat" (#заСалтанат) people have shown support for her family, shared videos honoring her memory, as well as composing songs, poems, art and touching dedications commemorating her. The trial was also covered by major Russian media outlets, and influencers are speaking out about the issue of domestic violence. 
During an April 15 meeting with journalists, the Foreign Ministry spokesperson, Aibek Smadiyarov, said he did not think the outcry would damage Kazakhstan’s image. On the contrary, compared to many of our regional partners, we are ahead in terms of such novelties." 
People have described the trial as a reality show that unfolds four days a week from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Bishimbayev faces a maximum sentence of life imprisonment. But experts say this verdict could be unlikely because it would require a majority vote from the jurors, a format he explicitly requested. Eleven people will vote – 10 jurors and the judge, who will go to the deliberation room together (a peculiarity Kazakh jury trials). 
A guilty verdict may only be possible if the prosecution can prove that Bishimbayev intentionally killed his wife "with particular cruelty," systematically subjecting her to torture and abuse. The defense has chosen a tough, contentious, but seemingly not hopeless tactic – appealing to patriarchy. Bishimbayev and his lawyers argue that it was a routine family quarrel provoked by the woman herself. 
The fact that the defendant is trying to tarnish the victim and convince the court that his wife was provocative, jealous and emotionally unstable, an alcoholic, and prone to violence has caused particular public outrage. Bishimbayev insists that although he caused the circumstances of her death,” he never intended to kill her. He maintains he only slapped each of her cheeks two times and "consciously" kicked her thigh, confident that her life was not in danger. Meanwhile, Saltanat’s friends and family recount that during their short, just over a year-long, unofficial marriage, the young woman was subjected to beatings, abuse and psychological violence. Bakytzhan Baizhanov, a relative of Bishimbayev, is also facing trial. He spent the last hours of Saltanat's life helping his boss and relative to delete the CCTV footage from the restaurant’s VIP room and dined with Bishimbayev as Saltanat lay dying. Today, Baizhanov claims in court that he did not realize that he was watching her final hours because his traditional mentality” did not allow him to interfere in the family life of an elder relative. 
While there was no CCTV footage in the VIP room, where the main events unfolded, the jury was shown terrifying footage from the restaurant hall. He hit her in the face, kicked her as she was lying on the floor, and pulled her by the hair. 
Instead of calling an ambulance, Bishimbayev, the man once responsible for the entire national economy, called a fortune teller. The fortune teller assured him that Saltanat would be okay, and he claims he felt reassured. He shows no tears or remorse. With a fresh haircut and three lawyers by his side, he is fighting for his future, showing not a shadow of a doubt that he deserves a better fate. Like many other men in Kazakhstan and similarly toxic masculine communities, he claims Saltanat was not perfect. She was not a perfect wife, woman, or human being. Does the Kazakh Criminal Code allow for imperfect” people to be killed? No, certainly not. Kazakhstan declares itself a secular state that respects the rule of law. But victim-blaming — saying that things are not so straightforward or that the woman is to blame for her own death — still works. 
It's important to know for context that Bishimbayev was sentenced to 10 years in prison in 2018 for accepting bribes on an especially large scale,” as well as embezzlement or misappropriation of state money. But already in January 2019, he was conditionally released on parole and pardoned by former President Nursultan Nazarbayev. 
When talking about Saltanat's death, the subjunctive mood is often used: If he hadn't been released, they wouldn't have met. She would still be alive.” But she's no longer here, and that's why the part of society that is following the trial so closely doesn't want the court to show mercy this time. 
This trial is a watershed moment for Kazakhstan. It's a battle between the old world — where women are to blame for the violence against them and marriage at any cost is a measure of whether a woman has fulfilled her duty — and the new world. A world where killing and hitting women is not acceptable, and a loving marriage should be more important than the public shame of divorce. Saltanat’s brother Aitbek desperately tried to save her from her marriage, and is now fighting for justice in her killing. His Instagram page has almost 800,000 followers. He is helping victims of domestic violence and is defending the memory of his sister at every court hearing. 
According to UN statistics, 400 women in Kazakhstan die from domestic violence every year. The actual number is likely even higher. Before 2017, domestic violence cases in Kazakhstan fell under the jurisdiction of two articles of the Criminal Code: Article 108 (intentional infliction of minor harm to health) and Article 109 (physical assault), which prescribed penalties such as arrest, fines, and correctional or community service. 
However, on July 3, 2017, then-President Nursultan Nazarbayev effectively decriminalized these articles. This decision, supported by the Interior Ministry and the Prosecutor General’s Office, aimed to "enhance preventative measures against offenders and streamline the legal process for prosecuting them." 
Ever since then, defenders and human rights activists have been struggling to criminalize domestic violence in Kazakhstan. Four years ago, a law on the prevention of domestic violence was almost passed, but a huge smear campaign put pressure on Kazakhstan authorities to abandon it. Its opponents claimed that it contradicted national traditional values. These values have cost the lives of many Kazakhstani women. 
After Saltanat's death, a petition to criminalize domestic violence gathered 120,000 signatures. 
More than 5,000 appeals were sent to the upper house of parliament requesting the adoption of a law unofficially named "Saltanat’s Law." 
When the Kazakh Parliament passed this law on April 11, many wrote that it was a symbolic gift from Saltanat, as it was passed on Bishimbayev’s birthday. On April 15, President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev signed the law on the protection of women and children from domestic violence. 
The law establishes criminal liability for assault and intentionally causing minor harm to health. People convicted of torture can be sentenced to up to 600 hours of community service or imprisoned for up to three years. Offenses that cause moderate harm carry a penalty of up to two years imprisonment, and three to eight years in prison for causing serious harm to health. 
We still have a lot of work to do. Human rights activists say that the law is not perfect, as we still do not have a comprehensive program for working with victims of violence and abusers. But if laws are written in blood, this one was written in capital letters like those we now see on hundreds of hashtags and posters at rallies around the world: "For Saltanat." She has become a symbol of every woman who may not have become a victim if the law had been there to protect them. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Garlic is the best way to keep vampires away, as everyone knows. Russia has never had much trouble with vampires, although it has plenty evil of its own kind. But garlic is a welcome ingredient in our historical cuisine. 
Many foreigners who visit Russia are perplexed by certain aspects of our traditional cuisine, such as sprinkling dill on virtually every dish. But a few centuries ago, foreigners were perplexed by something else: the taste and smell of garlic in many Russian dishes. 
As Professor Gavriil Uspensky of Kharkiv University wrote in a review of Russian cuisine in 1818, foreigners visiting Moscow in the Middle Ages "praised our drinks much more than our food." 
Foreigners were deeply impressed by the abundance of natural riches: fish, vegetables, wild game. But they couldn’t understand Russian cuisine. "Either out of choice or perhaps insufficient knowledge of the art of cookery, all these treasures were greatly neglected. German, French and English travelers found it especially strange that Russians were disgusted by what the foreign visitors considered many tasty and healthy viands, that they ate more fish than meat and garden greens, that they preferred salted and smoked meat to fresh meat and half-raw meat to skillfully prepared meat, that they preferred cold food above all and that they seasoned all their dishes excessively with garlic and onions, or salt, pepper and vinegar." 
However, along with the problem of the usual "difference of tastes" there is another issue at hand here. In those years people preserved food differently in Europe and in Russia. In the West people used herbs and spices from Asia and Africa; in Russia the natural preservatives were onions, garlic and salt. 
"To some extent, our cuisine is characterized by pies, which from antiquity were divided into podovye (baked "on podu" — on the bottom of the oven) made of leavened dough, and buckled” pies (fried in oil), sometimes made of unleavened dough. Food was not salted during preparation, so everyone salted food to their taste at the table,” a culinary researcher wrote in 1902. Various seasonings were used, especially onions, garlic and saffron. 
Onions and garlic were even included in the salaries given to many Moscow officials. Horseradish and dill were also commonly used in large quantities, as well as parsley, anise, coriander, bay leaf, black pepper and cloves, which had appeared in Russia by the 12th century. In the 15th and early 16th century they were supplemented by ginger, cardamom and cinnamon. 
"The nobles eat a little better, but they use little seasoning for dishes except garlic and onions," wrote Jiří David, a Czech Catholic priest and author of the treatise "The Present State of Great Russia or Muscovy" (1690). Some, however, are already imitating how foreigners eat. Their custom after dinner is to sleep a little and rest. Historians tell us that Tsar Dmitry (whom they consider an impostor) was under suspicion and not considered for a true Muscovite because he did not sleep after a meal." 
In Muscovy during those years dishes were usually cooked with garlic and onions. Foreigners wrote that all rooms and houses, including the magnificent chambers of the Grand Duke's palace in the Kremlin, as well as any place they even stopped in for a quick visit, were impregnated with an odor "repugnant to foreigners." This was indeed a serious problem for foreign visitors. Many European envoys had a difficult time finding something edible among the dozens of dishes sent to them by the Tsar. "They were disgusted by the strong odor and taste of garlic and onion, or the nasty smell of hemp or badly prepared butter that they used in making all the dishes made with flour, all the pies and fried fish,” wrote Gavriil Uspensky. 
Foy de la Neufville, the Polish ambassador to the Moscow court in 1689 wrote with light humor: "The Tsar sent me a dinner from his table that consisted of a 40-pound piece of smoked beef, several fish dishes fried in walnut oil, half a piglet, a dozen half-fried pies with meat, garlic and saffron, and three large bottles of vodka, Spanish wine and honey. In answering the question of how I found the dinner sent to me by the Tsar, I had to note that, unfortunately for me, French cooks have so spoiled my taste that I can no longer appreciate other cuisines, as testified by the fact that I have long missed French ragu." 
But another foreigner, Sir Thomas Smith, who visited Moscow as a member of the English embassy in 1604, spoke about the local food in very enthusiastic terms. Of course, this reflects the well-known contradiction between the French and English world views. The sophistication of French cuisine even then was very different from the restrained aristocratic English cuisine. And indeed, English travelers were well known for their willingness to eat other cuisines, whether in ancient Russia, India or Africa. 
One conclusion can be drawn from all this. Russian cuisine in those years was not greatly different from European cuisine — with the possible exception of the abundance of garlic and onions. It seems to have been in keeping with the average culinary customs of those years. Some foreigners liked it, some did not. It is clear that devotees of French cooking, which had made a dramatic leap in the previous decades, regarded Russian cuisine as quite backward. But, on the other hand, the same could be said about the culinary cultures of most European countries of that time. This was normal — nothing but a matter of taste, as they say. 
Instead of preparing a recipe for those years, we have one of our favorite dishes made with garlic. Garlic and herbs go brilliantly together, and these bright colors will bring the long-awaited summer closer. 
Herb and Garlic Stuffed Tomatoes 
Take 10 small tomatoes with dense flesh, wash them thoroughly, cut off a small cap around the stem. Use a teaspoon to scrape out the entire center, being careful not to damage the sides. Turn over with the cut side down and place on a plate to let all the juice drain off. 
Wash and dry the herbs, chop finely, mix with chopped garlic and pepper. Add the salt, sugar, pepper, vinegar and oil. Mix well and fill the tomatoes. 
What else can be tomatoes be filled with? There are many options, such as: 
finely chopped celery and apples dressed with sour cream, salt and pepper 
boiled shrimp with apples, celery, walnuts and mayonnaise 
diced boiled potatoes, carrots, celery, apples, pickles and green peas 
finely chopped bryndza (or feta), olives, cucumber, sweet pepper and garlic dressed with olive oil. 
All stuffed tomatoes should be served only after they rest” for 1 hour in the refrigerator to soak up the flavors of the filling. 
Over the past several months, Ukrainian drones have penetrated ever deeper into Russian territory, striking an oil refinery as far away from the border as the northwestern city of St. Petersburg, and more recently, a drone assembly plant in the republic of Tatarstan. Increasingly, these air attacks are sapping into Russia’s diesel and gasoline production, which Kyiv hopes will hit the Kremlin’s wallet and reduce the availability of fuel for Russia’s war machine. 
Between January and April of this year alone, Ukrainian airstrikes damaged 19 military facilities and at least 29 factories, oil refineries, and storage centers in Russia. 
The geography of these strikes has expanded beyond the border regions. In particular, on Jan. 21, an oil and gas terminal over 1,000 kilometers from the border in the Leningrad region was hit Furthermore, on April 2, a factory producing Iranian-designed Shahed drones in Tatarstan’s Elabuga was hit. The Ukrainian Defense Forces are confident they could go further, potentially increasing the range of their drones to 3,000 kilometers, allowing them to hit targets beyond the Urals. 
Moreover, the frequency and number of drones used are also steadily increasing. According to the Russian Defense Ministry, at least 53 drones were used to target Russian airfields in Morozovsk and Yeysk on April 5. I 
The ability to launch such swarms of unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) depends on Ukraine’s production capacity, as well as donations from Kyiv’s allies. Thankfully, this is increasing steadily. The level of UAV production and deliveries in Ukraine increased by more than 120 times in 2023 as part of a larger effort to close the gap with Russia's strike capabilities. 
Currently, at least 10 Ukrainian manufacturers are producing medium and long-range UAVs. Last November, one of them reportedly started producing en masse a kamikaze drone with a range of 1,000 kilometers. In February 2024, strategic industries minister Oleksandr Kamyshyn announced that Ukraine had already caught up with Russia in the production of UAVs similar to the Shaheds Russia uses to destructive effect against Ukraine. 
"Ukraine has a plan aimed at reducing the potential of the Russian Federation, which covers the aggressor's military industry, critical military targets, airfields, enemy command and control points, etc.,” the head of Ukraine’s military intelligence, Kyrylo Budanov, said after the strike on the Dzhankoy airfield in Crimea. 
According to Budanov, taking the war to Russian territory has direct effects on the situation on the Ukrainian front. He also noted that Ukraine is planning new drone attacks, as well as cross-border attacks by Russian volunteers operating inside Russia with Kyiv’s backing, to demonstrate that President Vladimir Putin is incapable of defending his country’s territory. 
The damage caused when Ukraine strikes fossil fuel refineries and military targets deep in Russian territory is becoming a serious problem for the Kremlin. As a result of this strategy, Russian refineries have lost 10% of their capacity compared to last year. The attack on the Morozovsk military airfield in the Rostov region on April 5 destroyed at least 6 aircraft including Su-27 and Su-34M bombers, which Russia uses to drop soldiers into frontline cities. 
However, the Kremlin now faces another equally acute problem: its interior is relatively unprotected. Russia's size has long been to its strategic advantage, as Ukraine did not have the forces and means to strike targets more than 100-160 kilometers from the border. As Ukraine scales up the number of drones at its disposal, it is also developing drones that can strike deeper into Russian territory. As a result, the size of Russian territory is turning from an advantage to a disadvantage, increasing the risk of hitting new targets in other regions of the European part of Russia. 
This is because it is difficult to cover such a large area with the air defense systems Russia has available. Currently, more than 50 Pantsyr air defense systems are used to protect against UAV attacks. After attacks on refineries intensified, these sites have been instructed to purchase electronic warfare systems at their own expense, there are too few surface-to-air missiles to cover every critical industrial site. 
To make up for this deficiency, Russia is creating mobile air defense groups, similar to the Ukrainian ones, which will be armed with anti-aircraft and heavy machine guns on the backs of trucks. However, all these efforts will not be able to fully counteract drones effectively, as potential targets are spaced huge distances apart. As a result, the Russian leadership may face a choice: to protect the air over military formations in occupied Ukraine, or to protect its own infrastructure in Russia. 
This dilemma is already evident, as the Kremlin had to move air defense systems from Russia’s far east to Moscow and Crimea at the beginning of the year. And, probably, even earlier, S-400 air defense systems were transferred from the Kaliningrad region to replace the losses of such systems in the war in Ukraine. 
Stretching Russian air defense systems in this way not only leaves ground targets exposed, but also leaves Russian aircraft defenseless. It is worth mentioning here the massive downing of Russian Su-34 bombers in early 2024, when 13 aircraft were shot down. The downing of two Russian A-50U long-range radar detection aircraft and an IL-22 airborne control center were also significant blows. 
On April 19, 2024, for the first time since the full-scale invasion, a Russian Tu-22M3 long-range strategic bomber carrying X-22 cruise missiles was destroyed, as well as the missiles themselves. The aircraft was hit by a Ukrainian air defense missile at a distance of 300 km from the Ukrainian border. 
We can assume that some surface-to-air missile systems have already been moved from occupied Ukraine to Russia, leaving these areas without cover Last week alone, Ukraine struck 4 facilities in occupied Ukraine behind enemy lines, including a military headquarters in Luhansk. For example, the attack on the Dzhankoy airfield in Crimea destroyed 4 S-400 launchers, 3 radar stations, an air defense control center, and surveillance equipment. The strike was carried out with seven ATACMS tactical missiles, which the United States handed over to Ukraine in the autumn of 2023. With the passage of a new $60 billion military and financial assistance package by the U.S. Congress in April 2024, it is safe to say there will be more such strikes to come. 
Crimea has become a particularly special target for air strikes on critical facilities, with at least 6 military targets having been hit since the start of 2024. As well as the Dzhankoy airfield, the 31st Air Defense Division’s communication center, the underground command post and communication center of the Saki airfield, the Belbek airfield’s radar, the main special communications center of the Russian Black Sea Fleet have all been destroyed. The strikes occurred even though Russia pays special attention to the defense of the peninsula. But this extra emphasis on defending against attacks from the air and water has not been enough. 
The Ukrainian armed forces’ decision to target this area systematically is an integral part of the de-occupation of southern Ukraine and Crimea. This tactic of making Russia die a death by a thousand cuts significantly weakens the enemy's ability to defend the region. 
With such attacks, Ukraine is clearing the battlefield for the use of Western F-16s. At the same time, by striking deep into Russia, the Ukrainian Armed Forces are over-stretching Russian air defense capabilities. 
Kyiv is fighting for a window of opportunity before the enemy can increase the protection of its targets with electronic warfare and form enough mobile fire groups to defend effectively against drone attacks. This window of opportunity must be seized, and it is a signal to Ukraine's partners to speed up military assistance to give Ukraine an advantage. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Whether the Ukraine war has been good for Russia’s working class is a question that Putin’s inner elite is obviously concerned about. Few in Russia can avoid the obvious fact that it is the sons of the poor, rural and ethnic minorities who are doing the fighting and dying. Looking at the experiences of these workers in-depth exposes numerous problems in understanding the developing relationship between society and the regime, Russia’s creaking infrastructure, and the faults in the war economy. 
The issue is in part a demographic one. Yet Russia already has 30% fewer able-bodied young people than it did 10 years ago because of the huge drop in births since 1991. The law of supply and demand says this should be great for blue-collar wages. In line with this, there is evidence of war industries and the army itself outbidding the rest of the economy for these precious men younger than 30. 
However, the argument that working-class Russians are beneficiaries of the war does not match up with the reality of blue-collar labor in the country. Historically, pay for these jobs has been very low. Workers have also struggled with high levels of job insecurity, miserable working conditions and some of the worst labor relations in the developed world. 
This vacuum-cleaner effect on labor is how some people explain the apparent uptick in accidents and breakdowns in critical infrastructure, such as the mass heating failures in January and the floods across the Urals and western Siberia in April. But a better explanation is simply that Russia has suffered from corruption, neglect and lack of investment during a period when urban areas have seen huge expansion in housing without commensurate investment in utilities. 
The same is true of the string of suspicious fires in factories, especially those linked to the war effort. Production within the existing factory and workshop spaces cannot be ramped up without huge risks. There is clear evidence that the culture of cutting corners on safety is worse than ever, especially because of the moratorium on spot checks by the authorities. This negligence is usually a more likely explanation than sabotage. Workers in critical industries are sometimes tag-teaming in three shifts in an aging plant that the higher-ups expect to run nearly 24/7. 
For example, in March, more than a dozen gold miners in the Amur region were trapped over 100 meters underground after a rock slide. Alarmingly, the authorities’ rescue efforts were so inadequate that mine workers were forced to dig out their comrades because of inadequate rescue efforts from the authorities, indicative of the general culture of callousness and negligence that reigns in many industries. The search for the miners was eventually called off. 
There is a paradox about labor relations and the war effort. However good the pay and conditions appear, workers remain rightly suspicious of the reality. Because of the demographic squeeze, they often realize their power by changing jobs frequently. The resulting labor churn puts massive breaks on productivity and safety. There is strong evidence that the war has made this much worse – especially in poorly paid blue-collar professions like public transport. 
The fact is that Russia’s informal economy remains huge, thought to make up 38.2% of GDP. Instead of creating a reserve army of labor, but a temporary refuge for many millions of men from poor quality waged work. Furthermore, undertaking informal work could be a way of avoiding military mobilization by effectively going dark on the authorities, potentially on the same level as working in reserved industries like metallurgy that are exempt from the draft. But little is known about this because, by its very nature, it is hard to research. 
The war effort is eating up an increasing amount of state spending. Now that Russia is entering uncharted territory by printing money to fund the war, inflation is back with a vengeance and is most acutely felt in the devalued salaries of ordinary people. At the start of the war, inflation shot up by an estimated 20%. In 2023, some said the actual rate, because of devaluation, was more like 60%. What this means for the average worker, even those in favored occupations, is a progressive erosion of their disposable income — even after accounting for efforts to switch to Chinese imports and domestically produced goods. 
This is far from the military Keynsianism that was supposed to trickle down into general consumption and services. On the contrary, as analyst Nick Trickett showed, the Russian economy is very brittle, and shocks from the war lead to bottlenecks, halts in production due to faulty equipment and accidents. Trickett calculates that average incomes are still lower in real terms than in 2013. 
For traditional blue-collar workers in manufacturing, living standards are noticeably deteriorating. As one worker told me, wage rises are like a dog chasing its tail” – the tail being the cost of living. 
There is simply not enough money to go around. So much has gone into paying soldiers and compensating their families, as well as replacing lost materiel, that the average worker feels like little has gotten better. 
My long-term contacts work in metallurgy, refining, metalworking and raw materials production. Many of these industries are considered so critical, workers are exempt from mobilization. They are careful what they say and self-censor, but their answers are still enlightening. While they report things like receiving a 20% pay rise they also complain about the cost of petrol, the difficulty of getting spares for foreign-made cars, and the increase in the cost of staples like eggs and medicine. Positive statements like "I’m a patriot and a consumer. There is still something in the fridge to eat. I have everything I need," are revealing because of how equivocal they really are. They indicate that behind a facade of normality, even well-placed workers are feeling the pinch. 
Some are more forthcoming, saying that wage and pension indexation is a myth. There was a mortgage boom in 2023, but this is subsiding now rates are high. 
One young man works for a booming fastenings manufacturer. He has a family and should be eligible for a subsidized mortgage. But says of getting on the housing ladder, You must be kidding – I haven’t even looked. I know it’s not realistic to get a loan.” 
Going into debt to buy white goods and cars with an average interest rate significantly over 10% has become the norm. Many refinance even small loans at disadvantageous rates, relying on bailouts from relatives; 2023 also saw a boom in unsecured payday loans under $1,000. The average loan is just 8,000 rubles ($86). Considering that most take out the maximum sum offered and use it to meet their immediate needs, this reveals the pressure working-class Russians are under. 
Fundamentally, even salaries in weapons manufacturing are too low to attract the labor it needs. Moreover, many weapons producers are located far from Russia’s core European regions, meaning they are unattractive to potential labor migrants. Even under wartime conditions, unauthorized strikes and production slowdowns are increasing. 
The economic unsustainability caused by the war aside, the social contract is fragile. Putinism was built on the bargain of political voice for sustained growth in economic well-being. 
If Putin’s war means stagnation, then what’s the point of Putinism? 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Russia’s regions stand to experience the effects of climate change in diverse ways, with some hit much harder than others, according to a recent study co-authored by Moscow-based climatologist Alexander Chernokulsky and economist Igor Makarov. 
As manmade global warming progresses — with 2023 marking the warmest year ever recorded — Russia may soon find itself in the midst of multiple climate change-fueled crises. 
A typical scene in Vorkuta or Noyabrsk is [seeing] cracks in the walls of houses,” one Russian climate expert told The Moscow Times, recalling visits to permafrost-covered regions in the north. 
The expert requested anonymity due to their affiliation with a group that has been targeted by the Russian authorities. 
One of the most memorable examples is a residential high-rise in Noyabrsk [a city of 100,000 inhabitants in the Yamal-Nenets autonomous district], or rather what's left of it, as the building was simply demolished due to it becoming too dangerous to live in,” they said. 
Russia is already experiencing intensifying droughts, floods, hot spells and accelerated permafrost thaw across its vast territory, whose climatic conditions range from subtropical to Arctic. 
After assessing four major risks — heat waves, water stress, wildfires and permafrost melting — the study’s authors ranked Russia’s regions according to which will suffer the heaviest economic toll — and where early adaptation is most needed. 
High forecast 
Many Russians still recall the heatwave of summer 2010, which was one of the deadliest in the country’s history with 56,000 victims across Moscow and its surrounding region. During that time, heavy smog from wildfires enveloped the capital and made climate change a tangible hazard for Muscovites. 
In a warming world, such periods of abnormally high temperatures — which increase the population’s mortality rate — will become more common and intense in Russia. 
The researchers examined the projected number of extremely hot days (with maximum temperatures exceeding 35 degrees Celsius) and tropical nights (with minimum temperatures above 20 C) for Russia in the future and concluded that extreme heatwaves will pose the greatest threat to urbanized areas in the center and south of European Russia, as well as to the south of the Urals and of western Siberia. 
If global greenhouse gas emissions continue as usual with no efforts to curb them, Russia’s southern regions — Krasnodar, Rostov, Stavropol, Astrakhan and Kalmykia — could endure an additional 13 to 26 extremely hot days on average by mid-century (2040-2059). 
If the world takes minimal action to reduce emissions, the same regions would see eight to 20 deadly heat days. 
Similarly, moderate climate action will see tropical nights across Russia’s south, with the above-mentioned regions experiencing 25-30 more nights with temperatures above 20 C annually by mid-century. 
Without mitigation efforts, tropical nights could reach Russia’s polar tips including the republics of Komi and Karelia as well as the Arkhangelsk region. 
That would result in more deaths from excessive heat, disproportionately affecting the elderly, individuals with chronic illnesses and those living below the poverty line, the study noted. 
The health risks tied to abnormal warmth will be greater in the presence of wildfire smoke — a significant risk for regions in Russia’s forest belt, from its central European regions to central Siberia and the south of the Far East, the study found. 
While the worst-case emissions scenario is less likely, a path resulting in about 3.6 C of warming by the end of the century is quite possible,” study co-author Chernokulsky, a climatologist and the acting deputy director at the Obukhov Institute of Atmospheric Physics, told The Moscow Times. 
Is it possible to adapt? To some extent, yes, but some losses are unavoidable, no matter how you adapt,” he said. Our task is to minimize losses, that is, to adapt nonetheless.” 
A costly future 
The crop-producing republics of Chuvashia and Tatarstan, as well as the Omsk region, declared a state of emergency in 2023 due to a drought that destroyed seedings. 
Despite a rise in annual precipitation in the country in general, some southern regions witnessed a 25% decrease in summer rainfall from 1976 to 2022. 
Climate-induced water stress will strike precisely those regions that are currently the most fertile, like Chernozem, the Black Earth” region of central and southern Russia, the study found. 
Major grain-producing regions such as the Rostov, Krasnodar and Stavropol regions, which already face water shortages, are likely to see worsening conditions due to climate change. 
The southern regions of the Urals and western Siberia also stand to lose the most economically from water stress, the researchers said, warning that ignoring climate risks poses a threat to Russia’s food security. 
The anonymous climate expert said Tatarstan as well as the Voronezh and Volgograd regions are particularly prone to water scarcity risks, which they observed during trips there in drought years. 
"The pictures that are in front of my eyes are conversations with farmers in Tatarstan who showed dried-up wells and talked about how they are forced to slaughter their livestock because there's simply nothing to feed them," they said. 
Moreover, the researchers found that the Moscow, Voronezh and Chelyabinsk regions are likely to be simultaneously impacted by three climate hazards” — abnormal heat, water stress and wildfires. 
It is highly likely that if adaptation measures are not implemented, these regions will experience the greatest losses in terms of both population and economy due to climate change,” the study said. 
In addition to the risks outlined in the study, Russia is witnessing a surge in extreme weather events. Central Russia and southwestern Siberia are facing more frequent downpours and storms, while the Black Sea coast is experiencing increasingly tropical rainfall as the sea’s temperature rises. 
Russia’s largest bank Sberbank said the country’s annual economic damages from climate change could reach up to 580 billion rubles ($6.7 billion) from 2023 to 2027, a figure comparable to the damages from the September 2023 Morocco earthquake. 
Higher estimates suggest losses of 1-2% of Russia’s GDP per year until 2030, with potential economic damage in climate-exposed regions reaching 5-6% of their gross product. 
In the Yamal-Nenets autonomous district, whose inhabitants are already observing the alarming effects of the climate crisis firsthand, local authorities currently spend tens of millions of rubles annually on cooling systems beneath buildings to prevent their collapse due to melting soil. 
But many Russian regions have not yet taken steps to prepare for the impending reality of a dangerously warmer world. 
Adapting to the inevitable 
The notion that Russia can benefit from climate change has circulated in the country for decades. President Vladimir Putin famously joked in 2003 that Russians would not need to buy as many fur coats on a warmer planet. 
A recent report from the Russian Agency for Strategic Initiatives suggests positive aspects of climate change such as prolonged navigation along major rivers and increased economic value of Russia's abundant natural resources like water, forests and soil. 
Still, in its climate doctrine last updated in October, Russia recognized climate change as a threat to national security and acknowledged the need for timely adaptation to the "inevitable" climate change in the coming decades. 
Some regions have already rolled out adaptation programs, utilizing new equipment for monitoring wildfire hazards in the Irkutsk region or expanding heat-tolerant plant cultivation in annexed Crimea. 
Existing adaptation efforts nonetheless fall short of what is needed, experts told The Moscow Times. 
For permafrost melt, the quality of adaptation programs varies widely from region to region, said Nikita Tananaev, laboratory director at North-Eastern Federal University and lead researcher at the Melnikov Permafrost Institute in Yakutsk. 
Some plans lack specific measures, consisting only of discussions, meetings and data updates.” 
There are regional adaptation plans where it's a complete mess, as in Yakutia, and in some places, they are better, such as in the Murmansk region. However, creating a plan and implementing it are different things,” Tananaev said. 
The awareness of the need for adaptation only recently came to Russia, with the corresponding government decree adopted in 2019, an anonymous expert said. 
By that time, the European part of the country had already experienced the nightmare of the 2010 heatwave, the loss of tens of millions of hectares of forests due to fires from 2010 to 2019, and so on,” they said. 
But the fact that such a decree [of 2019] and such a ranking [of regions] appeared … indicates that there is a chance that adaptation will still take place at a level that is possible with current technologies.” 
With the alarming acceleration of global heating, pressure is building to urgently transition to clean and green energy, creating a boom in demand for materials needed to create green technologies. Although these transition minerals are crucial for building renewable energy equipment and technology, their extraction has consistently been linked to a damning number of human rights abuses – which could threaten to derail decarbonization altogether. 
Though previously neglected in global analyses of transition minerals, the Eastern Europe and Central Asia (EECA) region is emerging as a new hotspot for extracting transition metals for global supply chains – primarily due to abundant reserves of minerals, including manganese, chromium, lead, zinc, copper and titanium. 
Much of the demand for these minerals is driven by the European Union’s ambitious climate goals, which will require huge quantities of these rare minerals. Estimates indicate that this demand is only set to increase – and recent indications show the region has set its sights on EECA as a sustainable supply source. 
The EU has signed strategic partnerships with three countries in the EECA region – Ukraine, Kazakhstan, and Uzbekistan. Given the vast reserves of transition minerals in the rest of the region, more partnership agreements are expected to be signed soon. The EU’s focus on EECA is taking place as geopolitical tensions are rising in the region. For example, Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has forced Western countries to reduce their dependence on Russia’s fossil fuels and China’s minerals. 
However, the extraction and processing of these minerals in the EECA region has been linked to a concerning number of human rights abuses and environmental incidents. 
Research by the Business & Human Rights Resource Centre looked at the human rights and environmental abuses linked to transition minerals in EECA between 2019 and 2023. The report found more than 400 allegations of abuse linked to the development, extraction and processing of 20 transition minerals in the region. 
Abuses were found in 16 EECA countries (Albania, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Bosnia & Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Kyrgyzstan, North Macedonia, Montenegro, Russia, Serbia, Tajikistan, Ukraine and Uzbekistan) – with workers and communities being the most affected by the allegations of abuse. 
Communities were mostly affected by environmental impacts. Water pollution accounted for 29% of these impacts, followed closely by air (27%) and soil pollution (22%). 
Among the worrying instances of abuse the report uncovered were concerns from environmental activists that the Lemnensky mine in northern Ukraine was harming the livelihoods of local residents. They claim the landscape near the facility has changed drastically, with forests cut down and replaced with huge piles of waste, and the fertile soil layer was destroyed. Also worrying is the news that wells in nearby villages have started to run dry. 
Overall, occupational health and safety issues were the most frequently recorded type of abuse, accounting for 64% of impacts on workers. Kazakhstan accounted for 43% of the total allegations. Inspections authorities conducted at the Vostoktsvetmet and Kazzinc mining companies found over 1,200 labor and industrial safety violations alone. 
Meanwhile in Russia, 145 and 206 violations of industrial safety regulations were detected at Lebedinsky mining and processing plant and Zapolyarny mine respectively. The research also recorded widespread labor rights violations, including workers going unpaid and underpaid, having access to information about the terms of their contracts, and facing workplace discrimination, long working hours, and violations of their supposedly constitutionally guaranteed freedom of association. 
Companies must not be able to get away with failing to address these serious abuses. More than 50 instances of workplace deaths were recorded in the region, and workplace injuries are disturbingly common. 
Despite these shocking figures, workers and local communities still face multiple barriers to holding companies accountable for human rights abuses. In most countries, the research revealed powerful businessmen – with close links to politicians – are involved with, or own, major extractive companies, further undermining workers’ and communities’ ability to seek justice. Eight out of the top ten companies with the highest numbers of allegations are owned by oligarchs, including Ukrainian billionaire Igor Kolomoisky, Russia’s Former First Deputy Prime Minister Vladimir Potanin, Uzbek billionaire Iskander Makhmudov, and Russian billionaire Oleg Deripaska. 
But a just transition to clean energy cannot come at the expense of people and the environment. Significant changes are urgently needed in the mining sector throughout Eastern Europe and Central Asia if the energy transition is to be fast and fair, as the sector is riddled with human rights and environmental abuses. 
A just transition to clean energy must center around three core principles: shared prosperity, human rights, and social protection, and fair negotiations. All of these principles are absent in transition minerals project development, extraction, and processing throughout Eastern Europe and Central Asia. 
Companies operating in the region need to identify human rights and environmental risks throughout their supply chains. This must start by implementing effective human rights and environmental due diligence processes, as well as engaging with local communities and workers. 
Furthermore, in challenging business environments – especially where civil or international conflict is possible – companies must ensure they are going beyond this to conduct heightened due diligence. Companies also need to provide timely access to information for affected rights-holders and establish grievance mechanisms that are accessible, predictable, equitable, and transparent for those negatively affected by their operations. 
Although the transition to green energy is essential, achieving it in a destructive, abuse-riddled way will be self-defeating. So far, workers, local communities, and the natural environment in the EECA region have paid a heavy price for this transition, when they could instead be beneficiaries. There is an urgent need for the transformation of existing business models in the EECA extractive sector if we are to ensure the transition to clean energy is truly just and sustainable for all. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
AMSTERDAM — An exhibition dedicated to political prisoners in Russia opened in the heart of the Dutch capital on Tuesday. 
Faces of Russian Resistance” displays 16 stories of politicians, activists, artists and public figures designated as political prisoners by human rights groups. 
We understand that hundreds of people are now in prison based on political charges. Our aim is to show the variety of [President Vladimir] Putin's repressions and crimes against the people,” Elena Filina, one of the project’s organizers, told The Moscow Times at the opening. 
The Kremlin has ramped up its repressions against opposition figures and independent voices since invading Ukraine over two years ago. At least 729 people are in Russian prison because of their political beliefs or actions, according to the Nobel Peace Prize-winning rights group Memorial — many of whom were jailed for opposing the war. 
This exhibition is an opportunity for Russians to tell the world what is happening in the country,” said Filina, a Moscow municipal deputy who fled Russia after she was prosecuted for her anti-war views. 
One photo shows Natalya Filonova, a 62-year-old pensioner and longtime activist, who was jailed for allegedly attacking police during protests against Russia’s mobilization for the war in Ukraine in fall 2022. 
Another story featured in the exhibition is that of Alexandra Skochilenko, an artist from St. Petersburg who was sentenced to seven years behind bars for replacing price tags at a local supermarket with slips of paper carrying anti-war statements. 
Opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Murza, whose photo is also on display at the exhibition, is serving a 25-year prison sentence on charges including treason after he criticized the invasion of Ukraine. 
Kara-Murza’s wife Evgenia, who was at the opening, stressed the need to keep the topic of political prisoners in the public eye, including in the West. 
We should keep discussing this constantly, otherwise, public attention shifts to other matters, especially for those living in countries where such [repression] cannot occur," Evgenia Kara-Murza told The Moscow Times, referring to Western politicians. 
These stories are shocking, but people need to know them,” she added. 
While the exhibition, developed by volunteers and already shown in more than 20 European cities, may not include all political prisoners, it serves to illustrate the scale of the repressions” and ensure that the issue of the release of Russian political prisoners is included in any communications with the Russian authorities,” organizers said. 
We cannot assume that people are fully informed about the situation inside Russia,” said Kris Petrasova, the press officer of Free Russia NL, a pro-democratic organization of Russian-speaking residents and citizens of the Netherlands. 
For Europeans, who lead their own lives and might not be familiar with it, seeing the faces and reading the stories of those being repressed is important,” she continued. 
The exhibition also highlights the conditions that political prisoners endure within the Russian penitentiary system. 
Many political prisoners are denied the right to communicate with their families, while families’ letters and parcels to prisoners are often delayed. 
Alexei Navalny’s death in an Arctic penal colony in February, which his team blames on Putin, has increased worries for the safety of other Kremlin critics jailed in Russia, particularly Kara-Murza, who survived two separate poisonings in 2015 and 2017. 
Kara-Murza was recently transferred to a Siberian penal colony and has repeatedly been isolated in a punishment cell. His health has reportedly sharply deteriorated in jail. 
Evgenia Kara-Murza said her fight to free her husband has sent her on the run” across Western capitals to lobby politicians to do more to pressure Moscow to free its political prisoners. 
Maybe if we talk about it, there will be more support [from the public],” Kara-Murza told The Moscow Times. 
When Alexandra Skochilenko swapped price tags at a St. Petersburg supermarket with statements criticizing Moscow's invasion of Ukraine and highlighting civilian deaths in the conflict, she didn’t expect that it could lead to her imprisonment. 
Back then, it seemed safe,” Skochilenko's girlfriend Sofia Subbotina told The Moscow Times in a phone interview. 
But these past one and a half years have shown us that nothing in Russia is secure.” 
A court in St. Petersburg on Thursday sentenced the 33-year-old artist and musician to seven years in prison on charges of spreading fake news” about the Russian Armed Forces. 
Despite being behind bars, I am freer than you. I can make my own decisions and speak my mind,” Skochilenko said during her last word in court. 
Skochilenko’s trial has been one of the longest prosecutions carried out under the military fakes” law, which was passed shortly after the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
She was accused of replacing six price tags with similar tags that had information about the war, including details about the presence of Russian conscripts in Ukraine — something that President Vladimir Putin denied at the start of the invasion — and facts about civilian deaths in the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol. 
Skochilenko was denounced by an elderly woman who saw her replacing the price tags and was outraged by the slander” and very worried about Russian soldiers in Ukraine.” 
In a recent interview with the Bumaga media outlet, the woman said she didn’t sympathize with her” and believed that Skochilenko hoped that she would get off easy and at the same time become a hero.” 
Skochilenko, however, said she was driven by the idea of saving people's lives. 
"I just wanted to stop the war — that was my motivation. Not hatred, but compassion. I am sure that everyone in the [court] room does not want there to be a war," Skochilenko said during a court hearing this month. 
I am deeply convinced that life is a great miracle,” she said. 
Since her arrest in April 2022, Skochilenko has spent 19 months in detention, enduring poor conditions and a lack of medical treatment that her lawyer Yana Nepovinnova describes as torture.” 
Skochilenko has been kept in pre-trial detention despite dealing with several health issues such as celiac disease, which requires a strict diet, and a congenital heart defect. 
Her requests to be placed under house arrest due to her health conditions were rejected by the court. 
Skochilenko’s health has markedly worsened in jail, her mother Nadezhda Skochilenko told The Moscow Times. 
In ordinary life, she follows a specific routine to maintain her health, but in prison, it is very difficult. Her health is deteriorating before our eyes," Nadezhda Skochilenko said. 
Skochilenko is not the only person to be charged with spreading "fake news" about the military after replacing price tags with anti-war information. Her defense argued that in a similar case, a resident of the city of Izhevsk was merely fined. 
The artist and her defense also raised concerns about Skochilenko's well-being due to her court hearing schedule. Because of the tight timing, she was unable to eat properly, take her needed medication doses, and replace the batteries in her heart monitor, and wasn't always allowed to have court breaks to drink water or go to the toilet. In one instance, an ambulance had to be called to court when Skochilenko was feeling unwell. 
Her mental health also appears to be deteriorating. 
Sasha has been grappling with her depression, even making it challenging for her to write letters,” Nadezhda Skochilenko said, using Alexandra’s diminutive name. She now rarely communicates with me, expressing that she lacks the strength, often spending most of her time lying down to regain energy.” 
An artist and musician, Skochilenko published comic books about mental health before her arrest. She also worked as a freelance journalist, covering political protests for the St. Petersburg media outlet Bumaga, and was involved in feminist activities. 
"It just so happened that I represent everything that the Putin regime is so intolerant of: creativity, pacifism, LGBT, psycho-enlightenment, feminism, humanism, and love for everything bright, ambiguous, unusual,” Skochilenko said in an open letter shortly after the arrest. 
According to Skochilenko, prison officials were initially reluctant to adjust her prison diet to accommodate the health restrictions she has due to gluten intolerance. 
I have constant stomach pain and sometimes I start vomiting when I am eating,” she said in an interview with the U.S.-funded RFE/RL news outlet last year. 
"The most critical issue, perhaps, is my vital need for gluten-free food. Currently, among penitentiary institutions, it is only available in pre-trial detention center No. 5. Your Honor, if you were to send me to a colony, it would lead to my starvation,” Skochilenko said this week. 
She also complained about living in a cell with another inmate who forced” her to clean the cell and the toilet with a sponge instead of a brush.” 
Subbotina said she usually visited Skochilenko at her pre-trial detention center twice a month for one hour and can also make calls every week. 
This is very little, but it already feels like a pretty good option," she said. 
Yet Skochilenko could often be seen smiling during court hearings, with her mother and girlfriend saying that the worldwide support she receives helps her to stay strong. After Thursday's verdict, she was seen forming a heart with her hands and blowing kisses to journalists and people who came to support her. 
Several Russian artists and public figures have voiced their support for Skochilenko and called for her release. Feminist activist group Pussy Riot also held a protest this month in support of the artist. The BBC included Skochilenko in the list of BBC's 100 Women of 2022. 
Skochilenko’s family and friends said that the artist still has no regrets about her protest. 
She doesn’t regret anything. It was important for Sasha to say what she said,” Subbotina told The Moscow Times. 
This was also echoed by Skochilenko’s mother. 
I’m proud of my daughter,” Nadezhda Skochilenko told The Moscow Times, adding that she supported her decision even despite the harsh prison sentence. 
I am very afraid of the punishments that will follow. I'm scared and try not to think about it,” she said. 
However, I can't say that it would be better if she didn't do this.” 
Dmitry Zhdannikov, a two-time Pulitzer Prize finalist, has been running Reuters’ energy coverage in London across Europe, the Middle East and Africa for the past 12 years. 
In his lecture, Zhdannikov explains how Russia's invasion of Ukraine and the subsequent Western sanctions on Moscow have resulted in a major shift in global energy flows and political alliances. 
This lecture at King’s College London is part of a series of talks by media professionals and experts on Russia organized by The Moscow Times at leading universities and research centers around the world. 
A scorched Urals settlement bears many scars and feels let down by emergency services. 
DZHABYK, Chelyabinsk Region — As high winds drove wildfire through parched woodland to close in on the village of Dzhabyk in early July, schoolteacher Lyubov Slyusar crammed a handful of pupils into her car and drove through the burning forest to safety along the sole dirt track connecting the settlement with the outside world. 
It was impossible to breathe,” said Slyusar, whose two-storey cottage was burned to cinders in 15 minutes by the forest fires that destroyed around a quarter of the houses in this small village in Russia’s Ural mountains, on the border between Europe and Asia. 
The heat was unimaginable. I’ve never known anything like it.” 
With Russia’s 2021 wildfire season already the country’s second most destructive this century, having claimed an area the size of Greece, Slyusar is only one of thousands of people whose lives have been turned upside down by blazes expected to rage on for at least another month. Many of those affected say the emergency services didn’t do enough to help them and hope Russian President Vladimir Putin will step in. 
I have a lot of faith in the state, in Putin,” said Slyusar. They’ve promised to help.” 
It’s been another long, hot summer in Dzhabyk — a remote railroad outpost of around 600 people nestled in the plains and forests near Russia’s border with Kazakhstan. 
For two months before the inferno broke out, not a drop of rain had fallen on the village. 
With much of the southern Urals bone dry amid a heatwave that saw temperatures consistently above 30 degrees Celsius, the land around this impoverished village of low-slung wooden cottages became a tinderbox. 
It’s a story typical of Russia’s 2021 fire season which has seen drought conditions experts say are induced by climate change fuel record breaking forest fires from Far Eastern Yakutia to Karelia on the Finnish border. 
In the Chelyabinsk Region alone, this year’s fires have consumed an area six times larger than the year before, according to official data from AviaLesOkhrana, a state forestry regulator. 
Though wildfires have become a regular occurrence in Russia, they have been mostly confined to the country’s vast wildernesses, only rarely affecting human settlements. 
While historically large fires in 2019 and 2020 burned for months without damaging infrastructure, this year has seen large-scale evacuations of fire-menaced villages in Yakutia, where authorities have begun felling trees to protect property. 
When the fires came to Dzhabyk — one of the most isolated settlements in the region — the emergency services were caught unawares. 
Despite fires having burned through nearby forests for several days, it fell largely to Dzhabyk residents — a mix of local railway workers and weekenders from the nearby industrial city of Magnitogorsk — to defend their homes as the flames approached. 
We have some genuine heroes in this village,” said Yelena Budaeva, a retired teacher whose house was one of only a few on her street to survive the inferno. 
People who were in the village came together with whatever they had to fight to fire.” 
Today, a month after the fires, the community still bears the scars of its brush with destruction, and harbors much resentment over why it came to this. 
Since the fires, people have become very angry and aggressive,” said thirty-five-year-old resident Yelena Ivekeyeva. 
On Russia’s Facebook-equivalent VKontakte, a Dzhabyk residents’ group was filled with praise for the locals who had rallied to defend the village — and dark rumours about why the emergency services allegedly failed to help them. 
Some of the firefighters said they wouldn’t extinguish the houses, and that their orders were only to put out the forest fires,” said retired teacher Budaeva. 
Many people blame the emergency services for not doing their job,” she added. Some of them just stood around, doing nothing.” 
With climate change an increasingly high-profile issue in Russia, officials have been keen to signal their concern over the summer’s runaway wildfires. 
In the days after the blazes burned themselves out, a stream of top officials, from the regional governor to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s personal envoy to the Urals made pilgrimages to fire-stricken Dzhabyk. 
In the aftermath of the fires, with tensions running high, the regional prosecutor’s office announced that three criminal cases into potential arson charges had been opened. 
An Aug. 10 presidential decree mandated beefed-up forestry services and swift compensation for those affected by the fires in Yakutia and Chelyabinsk Region. 
When The Moscow Times visited Dzhabyk, reconstruction was in full swing, with building contractors hired by the local authorities rebuilding the worst-hit parts of the village. 
On Aug. 6, Putin himself paid his own much-publicised visit to the region. Though he declined to visit Dzhabyk itself, the president took a helicopter flight over the scorched village and ordered the regional governor to tarmac the dirt track it relies upon. 
It was a sign of how serious the issue of wildfires — which have dominated Russian media throughout the summer and covered much of the country in acrid smog — has become for the Kremlin. 
For the residents of Dzhabyk, the sudden spike in official attention has been at once welcome and confusing. 
I’ve worked here for forty years, and in all that time I’ve never seen so many officials as I have since the fires,” said school principal Tatiana Korovchenko, 58, in an interview in the rundown, Stalin-era schoolhouse that caters to Dzhabyk’s few dozen school-age students. 
Even so, Putin’s remarks that the Dzhabyk fires were the result of a warming climate that will inevitably cause more such disasters arouse little concern in locals accustomed to seasonal blazes. 
I’m not scared of it happening again,” said Korovchenko, whose school served as a makeshift headquarters for the emergency services, and who credits the authorities with a rapid response to this year’s disaster. 
Though experts say wildfires will continue without major investment into sustainable forest management, Korovchenko — who lived through a spate of large wildfires in the 1990s — is undisturbed by the years-long streak of longer, hotter summers. 
Come what may, life goes on. We’ve had close shaves before,” she said. 
Fire-blackened forest 
However, in spite of the attention lavished on Dzhabyk, not all residents are happy with the official response. 
In Zapasnoe, a smaller village located nine kilometers of fire-blackened forest from Dzhabyk, 72-year-old retired railroad worker Ivan Nikolaev and his wife Tamara have been living in a neighbour’s one-room summerhouse since the blazes destroyed their house, toolshed, and sauna along with all their possessions. 
Carried by high winds that changed direction minute-by-minute, carrying embers across roads and rivers alike, the fires zig-zagged through Zapasnoe, wiping out some houses while leaving others intact. 
They just let it happen,” said Nikolaev, who remembers forest fires that were extinguished on time in years past and blames the emergency services for their failure to do so this year. 
It burned for days until it reached the village.” 
Now left with nothing, Ivan and Tamara are waiting for a promised 100,000 Ruble ($1300) one-time payout, and a pledge to rebuild their house before winter sets in. 
Nikolaev has little trust in the local officials who led the response to the fires. 
They say they’ll rebuild the house before Oct. 1, but I think we’ll see in the winter without a home,” he said. 
Yet even as the pair have little faith in the local administration or the emergency services, they — like many of their neighbours — are optimistic that the president will ensure justice is ultimately done. 
I want you to know that we believe in our Putin,” said Tamara. 
We believe in our president, and in our governor. They’ll get this sorted out.” 
SEVASTOPOL — At a cemetery on the outskirts of Sevastopol, annexed Crimea’s main port city, hundreds of Russian flags fluttered in the wind beside the graves of soldiers killed in Moscow’s war against Ukraine. 
Walking among the graves were Olga, 65, with her husband Vladimir, 73. The retired couple came to visit the cemetery on the eve of Victory Day, a national holiday when Russians celebrate the Soviet Union’s triumph over Nazi Germany in 1945. 
We’re here to give thanks, to honor their memory,” Olga said of the fallen soldiers. Victory will be ours, there’s no other way out.” 
The retired couple said they moved to Sevastopol from mainland Russia in 2019, five years after Moscow annexed the Ukrainian peninsula in a widely condemned referendum that served as a precursor of the February 2022 invasion. 
This is our land,” Vladimir told The Moscow Times. In 1941 we weren't ready [for Nazi Germany’s invasion]. This time we acted ahead of them [in Ukraine] by a couple of days.” 
Since invading Ukraine more than two years ago, the Kremlin and its mouthpieces have sought to draw parallels between what they call a special military operation” and the Soviet Union’s struggle against Nazism during World War II. And some pro-war Russians view themselves as reliving the feats of their ancestors by liberating Ukrainians from alleged neo-Nazi tyranny. 
In a Victory Day speech at Red Square on Thursday, President Vladimir Putin called on Russians to honor the memories of civilians killed in the neo-Nazis’ barbaric shelling and terrorist acts,” referring to Ukrainian attacks on Russian territory. 
Not far away from the cemetery on the outskirts of Sevastopol, explosions could be heard as Russia’s Black Sea Fleet conducted military exercises in anticipation of possible Ukrainian airstrikes on Victory Day. 
Authorities in Kyiv have repeatedly vowed to take back Crimea. And since the full-scale invasion, Ukrainian forces have fired on the annexed territory — which has been used as a logistics hub by the Russian military — with sometimes devastating effects. 
Dozens of U.S.-supplied ATACMS missiles were reportedly launched at Crimea last month, according to pro-war Russian bloggers, with some speculating that Ukraine was preparing to launch a major attack against the peninsula. 
Amid the heightened risks, Moscow-backed authorities in Crimea scrapped Victory Day celebrations. Parades and other festivities were also canceled in dozens of Russian regions due to safety concerns. 
If we hear the sirens, we run to the shelter and wait,” said Yana, a 25-year-old small business owner in Sevastopol. Everyone’s gotten used to it.” 
Yana said she planned to stay home for Victory Day, adding that she hopes the nearby conflict ends as soon as possible, regardless of whether Moscow can claim further territorial gains in Ukraine. 
Victory does not mean domination by one of the parties,” her friend Evgeny, a university student, told The Moscow Times. If it ends with a peace agreement, that too would mean victory.” 
While Russian forces continue to make territorial gains on the front line in eastern Ukraine, claiming several villages over just the past week, Moscow’s Black Sea Fleet has proven to be a weak spot in the Kremlin’s sprawling military. Ukrainian seaborne drone and rocket attacks are estimated to have destroyed around 20% of the ships in the Black Sea Fleet. 
In October, Moscow moved part of the fleet from its anchor in Sevastopol to the port city of Novorossiysk, which lies more than 300 kilometers to the east. And the fleet’s own headquarters in downtown Sevastopol remains in ruins after being damaged in a rocket attack last year. 
We find ourselves in a difficult situation,” said Mikhail Anokhin, a 54-year-old retired navy captain and the head of Sevastopol’s branch of the Russian Veterans Union. 
The Black Sea Fleet was not prepared for the deployment of these weapons,” he told The Moscow Times in an interview at his office, referring to long-range rockets sent to Kyiv by its Western allies. We need to learn from our mistakes.” 
Anokhin said that a lack of resolve within the Russian military to root out corruption and treason within its ranks was to blame for the havoc wreaked on the Black Sea Fleet. 
A large photo of President Vladimir Putin could be seen hanging in Anokhin’s office, alongside a portrait of Soviet dictator Joseph Stalin, who led the U.S.S.R. to victory in World War II. 
Stalin could see and understand many things,” the retired navy captain said. I believe in Vladimir Vladimirovich, but his hands are tied and he cannot act as severely [as Stalin did].” 
Anokhin said he believes victory against Kyiv will come only when Russian forces can ensure full protection over annexed Crimea. He said that would require conquering the whole southern coast of Ukraine. 
The Black Sea must be closed off to Ukraine,” he said. 
In Sevastopol, which has been highly militarized since Moscow annexed Crimea in 2014, Russian servicemen could often be seen strolling the streets. Among them was 25-year-old Aleksandr, who was on leave and visiting his wife Aleksandra for Victory Day. 
This holiday serves as a reminder that the evil we fought against [in the past] is like a mold we didn’t completely clean up,” the soldier, who had just come back from the front in Ukraine, told The Moscow Times. 
Aleksandr said he and his wife Aleksandra moved about a year ago from Russia to Sevastopol, where they hope to settle down and raise a family. 
I was proud of my grandfather, who was a hero of the Soviet Union,” said Aleksandra, whose coat was pinned with a Saint George Ribbon — a symbol of Russian military pride. 
Now I understand the responsibility of our ancestors better,” she said. 
Despite the warm and sunny weather in Sevastopol on the eve of Victory Day, few people could be seen strolling along the city’s main pedestrian walkway. Since the full-scale invasion, millions of Russian vacationers have avoided Crimea’s Black Sea resorts because of regular rocket and drone attacks from Ukraine. 
The best times were before 2014 when Russia and Ukraine were friends,” said Anna, who sells souvenirs in the port city. The only tourists left are relatives visiting and the brave few who come out of curiosity.” 
The 57-year-old said Victory Day used to be her favorite celebration in the year, and she always attended parades and other festivities to mark the occasion. However, Anna said, this year, the national holiday would be just another day for her. 
I don’t believe there will be victory,” she said. 
I feel a kind of sadness, no one knows what will come tomorrow.” 
VORONEZH, Russia — Valeria, a 28-year-old journalist, was woken up in the middle of the night to the sounds of explosions last Saturday. 
On Feb. 17, when the Defense Ministry announced that it destroyed four drones near her block, she had to sleep in her bathroom for fear of shelling. 
I heard about five explosions, although the news said there were only two or three drones. One of them fell near my relatives’ house,” she told The Moscow Times. 
It’s not the first time she’s been woken by the sounds of drones. 
In Voronezh, a city of about 1 million near the border with Ukraine, Moscow’s war on Kyiv has quietly seeped into everyday life over the past two years even as residents seek to maintain a sense of normalcy. 
A month before the Feb. 17 drone crash, Voronezh experienced its largest drone attack since the start of the war. Wreckage from one of the downed drones fell into an apartment, injuring a 10-year-old girl and starting a fire. Dozens of apartments were damaged near the Baltimore Military Airfield. 
From the beginning [of the war], I understood that this could happen, because we are close to the border,” Valeria said. I packed a backpack with medicines, water, documents and money a long time ago. If I need to, I’ll grab this and go to the nearest shelter.” 
My friends said I was a pessimist. Perhaps after another attack, they will reconsider their plans,” she added. 
Signs of war 
In Voronezh, there are few reminders of the war that is grinding on a couple hundred kilometers away. While the neighboring Belgorod region is shelled almost daily, life seems almost ordinary here. 
However, from time to time, it’s possible to sense that something is wrong — as if there is a glitch in the matrix. 
Sometimes a lone column of battered military trucks appears out of nowhere and drives off seemingly toward oblivion. Or the hum of airplanes rumbles over the city, and the rest of the world seems to freeze. 
Other signs of the war are neatly woven into everyday life. 
In the city’s main bookstore, a new novel by pro-war writer Zakhar Prilepin bearing the pro-war symbol Z” on its cover sits in the bestsellers section next to Stephen King novels. 
Ptichka, a coffee shop on a hipster street, is full of its usual clientele of regulars and freelancers. However, baristas say that in recent months, wounded soldiers from a nearby hospital often come here in the mornings. 
While authorities work to keep civilians insulated from the effects of the war, war-related incidents appear to be increasingly disturbing the peace in the region. 
In early January, a Russian warplane made an "emergency release" of its explosive payload over a village in the Voronezh region. Four people were injured and more than 100 buildings were damaged. 
The proximity of the fighting reminded many Voronezh residents of June 2023, when a column of Wagner mercenaries entered the region during Yevgeny Prigozhin’s attempted military mutiny. 
During the Wagner mutiny, two helicopters and a reconnaissance plane were shot down, killing all crew members on board. One of the shells fell into the courtyard of a high-rise building, and an oil depot was blown up on the outskirts of the city. 
On the night when they [the mercenaries] moved into Voronezh, it was an ordinary Friday in the city. Everyone was hanging out,” recalls 25-year-old graduate student Grigory. I was sitting with friends in a bar and constantly monitoring the news. And no one else seemed to care about what was happening.” 
When I was driving home early in the morning, my friend texted me: ‘Be careful, there was shooting on the way’.” 
All mass events in the region were canceled and a counterterrorism regime was introduced. Columns of mercenaries crossed the region and headed north towards Moscow before the rebellion was called off hours later. 
It ended as quickly as it started. The next day, life went back to normal,” recalls Grigory. However, the column of smoke from the oil depot was there for a couple more days.” 
Election anxiety 
Voronezh is hung with advertisements for contract military service, which no one seems to notice anymore. Several pop-up military enlistment offices operate in the city center. 
In December, Governor Alexander Gusev said the Voronezh region had become one of the country's leaders in the number of volunteers who went to the front. 
Two sources in the city districts’ administrations told The Moscow Times that the authorities persistently ask” them to recruit at least someone, even homeless people, to meet the contract recruitment quota. 
These benchmarks are apparently designed to reduce the public’s anxiety and assure them that there will be no second wave of mobilization, which many fear will happen after the election. 
The authorities are pulling out all the stops to maintain the status quo until the presidential election in March. Although no one seems to doubt the vote’s outcome, it is still capable of causing trouble for the Kremlin as the only legal way to express civil discontent. 
But despite a heavy-handed crackdown on dissent and an exodus of anti-war Russians, some activists have remained in the city. 
Many of them laid flowers at the monument to the victims of political repression for several days after the death of jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny last Friday. 
The day of Navalny's death brought me back to Feb. 24, 2022. Very similar feelings — the surreality of what is happening. I cried a few times," said Grigory, who came to lay flowers on the evening of Feb 16, the day Navalny's death was announced. 
A makeshift memorial to Navalny also appeared at the monument to the poet Osip Mandelstam, who died in Stalin's gulag camps. 
Police officers on duty nearby occasionally passed by to throw flowers in the trash. 
Ensuring security during the upcoming election is likely to become a headache for the authorities of the border regions as the threat of drone attacks and sabotage increases. 
In early February, Georgia’s security services claimed to have intercepted explosives sent from Ukraine and destined for Voronezh, where they were allegedly to be used to carry out a terrorist attack. 
On Feb. 18, another drone was shot down over the city, which, according to the pro-Kremlin media channel Mash, was targeting a local oil storage facility. 
After another attack, Governor Gusev published safety recommendations in case of an air threat. 
I have full faith that we will be protected. I don't read the news or watch TV. And I can say with 99% probability that the shelling will not reach us,” said 24-year-old Karolina, who lives near the Baltimore Military Airfield where several drones have been shot down. 
"Anyway, I'm not going to leave. We have invested too much money in the house." 
Karelian cuisine is a kind of culinary time machine. It includes dishes and traditions not only of Karelians, but also of ancient Novgorodians from the 14th century, Veps, Izhors and other nationalities that only have a few thousand people. To eat Karelian food is to take a journey into the past. 
This marvelous forest and lake region is famous for its rich and generous nature, and the local population is renowned for its warmth and hospitality. Any feast in Karelia includes fish cooked in different ways, pickled mushrooms, soused cowberries... There has always been an abundance of pickled freshwater fish (there are about 60,000 lakes in this region, a huge number of rivers and creeks that are home to 60 species of fish). But there is absolutely no smoked fish that is so common in Baltic cuisines. The menu of Karelian cuisine necessarily includes kalarokka — fish soup. 
The most typical fish soups are a milk soup made of whitefish and pickled fish. Unlike clear Russia soups, kalarokka is cloudy: after the fish is boiled a little, fish milt (roe) and liver, potatoes or pearl barley is added. In the north they often add flour, in particular, flour called sushchika made of dried fish, or egg. This Karelian soup is a hearty meal. 
And, of course, some soups are made with cream, the analog of the Finnish soup Lohikeitto. But to save money enterprising Karelians use white fish (kala in Finnish) instead of salmon (lohi in Finnish). The result is kalakeitto. 
In the past Karelians did not use spices (pepper, bay leaf, etc.), and this tradition has been so persistent that even now many families do without them. But in some villages they would add a few pieces of sour bread, pine or birch buds to the soup for flavor. 
A traditional Karelian and Vepsian dish is fish pie. The crust of the pie is a yeast sourdough made of rye or wheat flour. The filling is whitefish, smelt or cod fish. In central Karelia and the south, fish pies were closed” (covered with dough), and cooks checked to see if they were ready by taking them out of the oven and shaking them. If the fish inside walked” (moved around), it meant that the pie was ready. The pie would be basted with water or turnip kvass and covered with a towel. 
In the north they used to bake open fish pies made with freshly salted fish. These fish pies are still a favorite dish of Karelians and Pomors. They are baked on holidays, as well as sold in stores and served in restaurants as a traditional dish. 
Cattle breeding has never been the main occupation for Karelians. Beef might still appear on tables, although not that often, and even less often do they eat lean lamb and pork. Cows were kept for milk and dairy products. Sour cream, cottage cheese, sourdough, and condensed milk could be found on most farms. They were consumed in natural form, used as dressings and bases for various dishes, added to both pie fillings and dough. 
Since the development of agriculture in these regions, grain crops — rye, oats, barley — formed the basis of their diet. Bread (leipa), round rye bread, often with a hole in the middle (reikaleipa), was usually sour,” that is, made with with sourdough. Flatbread with a hole, once made by a horn and now by a drinking glass, was easily strung on thin poles to dry and then stored in homes. 
No less popular were thin unleavened flat cakes called "skantsy," which in the old days were often baked like pancakes and served in a stack and heavily buttered. The dough for them was made simply. Rye or barley flour was kneaded with water or sour milk, slightly salted, then rolled out with a rolling pin and baked in a pan on coals in the oven. 
Often a filling of thin porridge or barley soaked overnight in simple sourdough was spread on skantsy. They were then rolled up in a special way: people would turn down edges on both sides and then fold it and eat it. 
Sometimes housewives would put a tablespoon of filling on the flat dough, pleat the edges like an accordion to make a half-open pie with a hole in the middle. It was basted with sour cream beaten with egg and baked in the oven. These are the famous Karelian kalitki, still served, steaming hot, today. 
Kalitki pies are baked all over the Russian North. Even in Finland they are known and loved. They vary slightly by region. Kalitki can be oblong (in the form of a boat), round, quadrangular and polygonal. The filling is most often porridge made with milk, lately — mashed potatoes and milk. 
Now they are made with a variety of fillings (since the 19th century they were made with lingonberries, buckwheat, oatmeal, and potatoes), sometimes during the meal they are buttered and dipped in hot milk or served with fish soup. In any Karelian town you can taste kalitki in many cafes and restaurants, as well as buy them in street stands. 
What do you wash your kalitki down with? Strong sweet Karelian tea with condensed milk. But in the past tea” for Karelians meant infusions made with St. John's wort, raspberry and cowberry leaves, or birch tree mushrooms. 
Karelian dinner often begins with rich, cream-based soup — this Finnish-Karelian soup called Lokhikeitto. 
Dice the potatoes and carrots into small cubes. Slice the leeks into half rings. 
Place vegetables in large sauce pan, add cold water, pepper and bay leaf. Boil the vegetables until tender. 
Remove the skin and bones from the salmon fillet. Cut into strips. 
Add fish and cream to vegetables and salt to taste. Cook over low heat until fish is cooked — about 3-5 minutes. Serve with dill and rye bread. 
GOMA, Congo — In a makeshift nightclub in the hull of the overnight ferry from Goma to Bukavu, a handful of teenage boys are trying out some new moves. Some land, some don’t. When they don’t, the elderly man on the bench next to us nudges us and rolls his eyes, amused. 
The DJ, who has so far been playing the usual Afrobeats hits and Congolese rumba, whips out a more unexpected Communist crossover: the Russian Internationale — the pre-1944 Soviet national anthem — mixed with a Congolese beat. People immediately pack the dancefloor. 
Here in eastern Congo, enthusiasm is palpable for the Russians,” a catch-all term for the roughly 1,000 Eastern European mercenaries stationed in Goma as well as actual Russian mercenaries embedded in other fragile states — and the Russian government, which said in March that it approved a tentative military cooperation agreement with Kinshasa. 
The reason is simple. Since 2022, this area has been mired in one of the world’s most catastrophic conflicts. With Rwanda’s help, the M23 militia has raped and massacred its way through the North Kivu province and is edging nearer to the regional capital Goma — close enough that, the night before, we could hear the rumble of explosions outside the city. 
The conflict has displaced millions, wrecked lives and livelihoods and destroyed the modest tourist industry. Even the endangered mountain gorillas, the area’s most lucrative draw for visitors, have fled the besieged Virunga National Park to neighboring Rwanda. 
With international attention taken up by the wars in Ukraine and Gaza, there is little interest in the crisis here and no hope of support from the West. The East African Community sent some soldiers early on, but the alliance quickly soured. Even the UN peacekeepers are packing up to leave. 
Congo is desperate for help, and the only groups keen to step in are mercenaries, Russian and otherwise, circling to see what they can gain. 
Increasingly, too, a complex web of military and commercial actors from Russia, China, UAE, the U.S., France, Bulgaria and Romania — the interests of which on paper should not overlap — appear to be working together to maximize this extraction. 
Historically, inviting in foreign militaries and especially mercenary groups has gone spectacularly badly throughout Africa. 
And while Russia may have pulled off an impressive PR feat by convincing Congolese citizens that it will be a genuine ally, its mercenary forces’ actions elsewhere on the continent tell a very different story. 
The Wagner Group and other emerging Russia-backed forces and ‘advisers’ exploit the resources and people of African countries for their personal gain. They are a threat to stability and prosperity in countries where they are present,” a spokesperson for the U.S. State Department said in an emailed statement. 
These forces do not lower terrorism but rather exacerbate the threat by pursuing draconian, violent tactics. This results in dramatic increases of cyclical violence,” the spokesperson added. 
As Western countries sanctioned Moscow following its 2014 annexation of Crimea, the Kremlin began frantically pushing to sign military cooperation deals with various African nations. This included a May 2019 military agreement with Congo’s neighbor, Congo-Brazzaville/Republic of the Congo, that saw Russia send military specialists to the country and help maintain its Soviet-made equipment. The Kremlin claimed it inked a similar agreement with Congo earlier this year. 
Since 2017, Russia has also aggressively expanded its military presence across Africa through the Wagner Group, a collection of front companies and Russian mercenary outfits formerly owned by the late businessman Yevgeny Prigozhin. 
Once a close ally of President Vladimir Putin, Prigozhin launched the Wagner Group following the annexation of Crimea to further the Kremlin’s foreign policy goals even as sanctions piled up and the country became diplomatically isolated. 
The U.S. designated the Wagner Group as a transnational criminal organization in January 2023, and the Treasury sanctioned connected individuals and companies. 
But by May last year, it was believed to have around 5,000 mercenaries stationed in Africa — many of whom were former Russian soldiers and convicts. 
Wagner troops have been detected in Mali, Sudan, Central African Republic, Libya and Mozambique, and its mercenaries have been accused of torture, rape, child abduction and summary execution of civilians. Wagner-linked companies are allegedly involved in gold smuggling and illegal mineral exploitation, using Cameroon as a logistics and transport hub. The group also engaged in election meddling (through AFRIC, Prigozhin’s fake election monitoring organization) in Congo, Zimbabwe, Madagascar, Mozambique and South Africa. 
These activities tend to follow the same pattern, journalist Julia Steers said. 
Get into a country that has a complex and protracted conflict that has been unsolvable by other countries by selling security personnel, services and training, and then once you are in the country you take advantage of what that country has to offer — by propaganda in the media and civil society there, by getting the political class on your side,” she says. 
That might be through exploitative businesses, as in the Central African Republic, she said, or straight-up resource extraction, as in Mali. But in any case, the question boils down to: How can we take advantage of what this country has to offer once we have got our foot in the door through this security agreement?” 
Steers was formerly VICE News’ Nairobi bureau chief and has spent years investigating and interviewing Wagner employees across the region, gaining rare access to their operations on the ground. 
Wagner’s Africa strategy, Steers says, is to identify hotspots with vast mineral wealth that are beleaguered by conflict and present themselves as the solution. 
In reality, what we’ve seen is that they often just prolong the conflict in a different way,” she said. 
The trick appears to be doing just enough to contain the worst militias that the population comes to accept abuse and exploitation as a necessary payoff. 
When I was first in the Central African Republic, the sentiment was very much, ‘Russia very bad, Wagner very bad, they’re slaughtering us’,” Steers said. But when the rebels almost took Bangui, it truly was Wagner that prevented it from falling. The perception on the ground — and the reality on the ground — was that they are doing something.” 
If a country is in dire enough straits, she said, the population starts to see very, very incremental improvements” as a positive thing — even at the cost of human rights.” 
Prigozhin and several Wagner commanders died when an apparent explosion caused his private jet to crash in August 2023, two months after launching a short-lived mutiny that Putin called an act of treason. 
But the Wagner Group lives on in Africa and is now reportedly directly controlled by the Kremlin under the new name Africa Corps. 
In February, the BBC reported that General Andrei Averyanov, head of a Russian military intelligence unit that specializes in targeting killings and destabilizing foreign governments,” had assumed leadership of Africa Corps and appeared to be striking deals with powerful warlords, coup leaders and military juntas in Libya, Burkina Faso, CAR, Mali and Niger to help consolidate control in return for signing away mineral rights to Russia. 
The Kremlin said last June that the Russian state had no role in Wagner’s multimillion-dollar business interests in Africa. 
Wagner/Africa Corp is hardly the first set of state-linked mercenaries to exploit security crises in African nations and gain access to valuable resources. 
During the 1960s, as the last of the European colonial powers were pushed out of Africa by independence movements, several scrambled for ways to cling to whatever power they could, fearing that newly independent African states would align themselves with the Communist U.S.S.R. 
Today, the private security contracting business in Congo is booming. The American Erik Prince, formerly of the notorious Blackwater group, was alleged by a UN report to have been discrediting MONUSCO peacekeeping services to potentially fill their role with his mercenaries. 
The most prominent actor currently on the ground however is Horatiu Potra, the Romanian mercenary who openly operates his armed private security firm, Asociatia RALF, in eastern Congo. The armed security operators are officially there as military instructors and to guard key infrastructure like airports. But, from on-the-ground observations, they were also taking part in active combat missions in North Kivu. 
The risk of foreign fighters operating inside Congo was brought to international attention this month when U.S. citizen Christian Malanga was shot dead while leading an attempted coup in Kinshasha. Another three U.S. citizens were detained by Congolese forces. 
The motivations and wider support for the group involved in this failed attempt to seize power remain unclear, but the operation stands as a reminder that, even in 2024, foreign actors are still using armed force to gain control in this mineral-rich state. 
Russia will capitalize on situations like this when it accuses many Western companies, governments, militaries and certainly private security forces operating in Africa of selfishness and exploitation. 
The problem is that they have made it clear, at every juncture, that they will do the same. 
If Africa Corps, formerly Wagner, were to arrive in the DRC, their objectives would be the same as they have been elsewhere — and even more so — which is to strengthen and extend the influence of the Russian state and show the West as feckless and self-interested, although Russia is feckless and extremist, and really acting like a neo-colonial power in Africa,” says Vanda Felbab-Brown, co-director of the Africa Security Initiative at the Brookings Institution in Washington. 
And while ideologically opposed countries — especially the U.S. and France on one side and Russia and China on the other — disparage each other’s predatory inclinations, behind the scenes, their most vocally patriotic mercenary leaders and mining investors appear more than happy to work together, forging dangerous alliances in spite of, rather than in support of, their respective countries’ interests. 
Back in Goma, outside a building that locals identify as a Russian” base, a mercenary with an Eastern European accent smirks when we ask him if he’s Russian or Romanian. 
It doesn’t matter where I’m from,” he says. All that matters is that as long as we’re here, you’re safe.” 
In a sense, it’s true — no matter where these mercenaries are from, the outcome will be the same. Rebel militias might be held back, at least a little, at least for a time — and in the long term, the country will see even more of its wealth and resources slip away into foreign hands. 
But here in eastern Congo, where the most pressing priority is keeping the wolf from the door, it’s a risk politicians and the public appear willing to take. 
A veteran of Russia’s war on Ukraine has been appointed as a district head in his home region on Monday, marking the first known example of a participant in the war being named to public office in Russia. 
Today, deputies of the Berezovsky District Duma unanimously endorsed the candidacy of Ruslan Alexandrov for the post of the head of the Berezovsky district,” said an announcement on the district’s official website. 
The inauguration of the new [district] head will take place shortly,” it added. 
Alexandrov, from the Khanty-Mansi autonomous district in western Siberia, enlisted as an army volunteer in 2022 and served in an intelligence unit on the front lines in Ukraine, local news website Tyumen Online reported. 
After he was wounded, Alexandrov returned to his native Berezovsky district and started working at a local enlistment center for military volunteers, according to the news outlet. 
Prior to jump-starting his military career, Alexandrov worked as an environmental specialist in the Berezovsky district administration and also held a job at a sports center in the region’s capital of Khanty-Mansiysk, according to Tyumen Online. 
In a speech earlier this year, President Vladimir Putin said participants of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine were the country’s future elites,” hinting at an upward social mobility for war veterans. 
The real elites of the country who can take over Russia must be formed from these people [who fought in Ukraine],” Putin said. This means they need to receive support, they need to receive help.” 
In a major shakeup, President Vladimir Putin has nominated former First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov to replace longtime Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, the upper-house Federation Council announced Sunday night. 
The ouster of Shoigu, a longtime Putin ally, comes nearly a week after Putin was sworn into a fifth term in office, cementing his more than two-decade rule even further as Moscow presses forward with its war with neighboring Ukraine. 
Belousov, 65, has held several positions in government over the past decade, from economic development minister and presidential economic assistant to acting prime minister and first deputy prime minister. 
When asked about Belousov’s lack of military experience, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists that a civilian official heading the Defense Ministry would open it up to innovation, to the introduction of all advanced ideas.” 
It’s very important to integrate the economy of the security bloc into the country’s economy so that it meets current needs,” Peskov was quoted as saying by state media. 
Putin has also dismissed Security Council chief Nikolai Patrushev, long considered a key member of Putin’s inner circle, in connection with his transfer to another job,” according to a presidential decree. 
Shoigu will take Patrushev’s place as head of the Security Council, an executive branch body overseeing strategic and national security issues. 
Peskov said the Kremlin would reveal Patrushev’s new position in the coming days. 
Shoigu, a longtime Putin ally who has led the invasion of Ukraine, had until now withstood a series of failures in the war and a mutiny by the Wagner mercenary group in the summer of 2023. 
The replacement comes weeks after the arrest of Deputy Defense Minister Timur Ivanov, who was seen as a close Shoigu ally, on bribery charges. 
Tatiana Stanovaya, a political analyst and founder of the R.Politik project, said Shoigu's transfer to the Security Council proves that the body is merely a place where Putin keeps former key officials who can't be sacked outright. 
Stanovaya added that she expects "something new" to be placed under Patrushev's purview. 
"It is now important for Putin to make sure that the enormous sums of money spent on war are not stolen," Andrei Kolesnikov, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, wrote on X (formerly Twitter). "But Belousov will now ruin his reputation forever as an accomplice." 
"Belousov was responsible for technological development. The Kremlin believes he will technologize the economy and turn it into a military economy. And the military will pull GDP growth. Star Wars economy," Kolesnikov wrote. "Which is what the USSR blew up on." 
Apart from the major shakeup in the Defense Ministry, most top officials kept their positions, with Putin reappointing Sergei Lavrov as foreign minister, Alexander Bortnikov as Federal Security Service (FSB) head, Sergei Narishkin as Foreign Intelligence Service head, Konstantin Chuychenko as justice minister, and Alexander Kurenkov as emergencies minister, among others. 
So, too, was the son of longtime Putin ally Yury Kovalchuk appointed to chair Russia’s Audit Chamber, a post that has remained empty since its previous chairman, systemic liberal Alexei Kudrin, was dismissed in November 2022. 
In Photos: 10 Years Ago, the War in Donbas Began 
Apr 12, 2024 - 04:39 pm 
In April 2014, an uprising by Russia-backed forces in eastern Ukraine marked the outset of the conflict in the Donbas between Russia and Ukraine. Shortly after the Kremlin's March 2014 annexation of Crimea, a group of fighters led by Russian military commander Igor Girkin, also known by his alias Strelkov, joined pro-Russian separatist forces in the Donetsk region of Ukraine. The Ukrainian city of Sloviansk became a point of heavy fighting between the Ukrainian armed forces and pro-Russian separatists who, in April 2014, declared the sovereignty of the Donetsk People's Republic. The Luhansk People's Republic declared its independence from Kyiv at the end of that month. Russia, which recognized the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Luhansk "people's republics" in 2022 — and later annexed them — used the Donbas conflict as a pretext for its full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Ten years after the fighting began, the Donbas — a major center of the coal industry and metallurgy, previously populated by 6 million mostly Russian-speaking people — remains a grim theater of warfare. Here’s a look back at some of the events of 2014: 
A pro-Russian fighter stands guard at a checkpoint in the eastern Ukrainian city of Sloviansk. 
Evgeniy Maloletka / AP / TASS 
Military commander Igor Strelkov's (Girkin's) fighters near the Sloviansk administration in April 2014. 
Yevgen Nasadyuk (CC BY-SA 3.0) 
Vyacheslav Ponomaryov, the self-proclaimed mayor of Sloviansk who was supported by pro-Russian separatists, in Sloviansk city hall. 
Mikhail Pochuev / TASS 
Pro-Russia separatists warm themselves near a barricade outside a regional police building seized by armed forces in Sloviansk in April 2014. 
Genya Savilov / AFP 
Armed men wearing military fatigues show a sticker with text reading "Donetsk don't listen to Kyiv" during a pro-Russian rally in Sloviansk in April 2014. 
Kirill Kudryavtsev / AFP 
A barricade outside the police regional building seized by the separatists in April 2014. 
Aleksandr Sirota (CC BY-SA 3.0) 
Pro-Russian separatists block a column of Ukrainian soldiers riding on armored personnel carriers in the eastern Ukrainian city of Kramatorsk in April 2014. 
Anatoliy Stepanov / AFP 
A burnt-out car after an overnight attack at a checkpoint at the entrance to Sloviansk. 
Mikhail Pochuev / TASS 
Armed pro-Russian separatists barricades in front of city hall in Sloviansk. 
Sergei Grits / AP / TASS 
People carry a Ukrainian flag and a portrait of Volodymyr Rybak, a local councilor from a pro-Western party who was reportedly killed by pro-Russia separatists in Sloviansk, during his funeral ceremony in the eastern Ukrainian city of Horlivka, Donetsk region, on April 24, 2014. 
In Photos: 180K Muslims Celebrate End of Ramadan in Moscow 
Apr 10, 2024 - 05:55 pm 
The festival of Eid Al-Fitr, or Uraza Bayram,” marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan in Islam. This year 180,000 worshippers marked the event in Moscow, a figure below half of last year’s number. 
Muslims pray outside Moscow's Cathedral Mosque during a celebration of Eid al-Fitr which marks the end of the holy fasting month of Ramadan. 
Arthur Novosiltsev / Moskva News Agency 
Police in front of Moscow's Cathedral Mosque. 
Arthur Novosiltsev / Moskva News Agency 
Muslims greet mounted police outside Moscow's Cathedral Mosque during a celebration of Eid al-Fitr which marks the end of the holy month of Ramadan. 
Valery Sharifulin / TASS 
According to the U.S. Department of State, roughly 10% of Russia’s population is Muslim. 
Arthur Novosiltsev / Moskva News Agency 
Russia’s Muslim population includes indigenous ethnic groups as well as migrants from Central Asia and Africa. 
Arthur Novosiltsev / Moskva News Agency 
A 2019 study by the Pew Research Center found that 76% of Russians had a favorable view of Muslims in the country. 
Vasily Kuzmichenok / Moskva News Agency 
Muslims praying at Moscow's Cathedral Mosque. 
Arthur Novosiltsev / Moskva News Agency 
Around 180,000 people prayed in mosques throughout Moscow on Wednesday morning, according to the Russian Special Administration of Muslims. 
Vasily Kuzmichenok / Moskva News Agency 
The figure marks a decline from 400,000 worshippers last year. 
Arthur Novosiltsev / Moskva News Agency 
Following last month's deadly attack on Moscow's Crocus City Hall, Muslims from Central Asia have faced racial profiling by police and attacks from nationalists. 
As Russia's invasion of Ukraine nears the two-year mark, an unofficial calendar for the Federal Security Service (FSB) offers an extreme vision for 2024. 
From President Vladimir Putin's biceps rippling under a tight black T-shirt to a Russian soldier storming the U.S. Capitol, limits to this calendar's imagination do not exist. 
In its other images, which heavily romanticize the Russian military, soldiers can be seen holding children, women and Cheburashka. 
The calendar's content offers a glimpse into the hyper-militarized, pro-war imagery that has shaped many Russians' outlooks, and comes amid historic lows in relations with the West over the war in Ukraine. 
The calendar, which is sold by an FSB veterans' support charity, retails for 5,228 rubles ($57.92) on Ozon, one of Russia's largest online marketplaces. 
Photos of the calendar pages were first published by British media. 
"The idea for ​​the calendar belongs to Nikolai Guryev, chairman of the Special Operations Command C Combat Veterans Support Fund," Roman Korsuvorov, the deputy chairman of the Krasnodar region's FSB border guard veterans group, told the bloknot-rovorossiysk.ru news website. 
Guryev himself said the image of the U.S. Capitol under assault was not meant as a direct threat. 
"I wanted to convey to the audience that we have a strong country and a strong leader," Guryev told the outlet of his idea. "That this won't end well for the United States, and this is what could happen to this wonderful country because of those who run it so incompetently." 
In Photos: Georgian Riot Police Clash With Protesters Rallying Against 'Foreign Influence' Bill 
May 02, 2024 - 04:17 pm 
Thousands of Georgians this week have rallied against a controversial foreign influence” bill being debated in Georgia’s parliament. Critics compare the legislation to Russia’s foreign agents” law, which since its adoption over a decade ago has been used to crack down on independent media and the political opposition. In the latest escalation, police used pepper spray, tear gas, and water cannons against hundreds of demonstrators. The anti-government rallies have been staged in central Tbilisi since Georgia’s parliament approved the foreign influence” bill in its first reading last month. The draft legislation was approved in its second reading on Wednesday night. A final reading is scheduled for May 17. Georgia has sought for years to deepen its relations with the West, but the ruling Georgian Dream party, led by billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili, has adopted increasingly anti-Western views in recent years and has been accused of trying to steer closer to Russia. 
Demonstrators set up a barricade to block the side entrance of the Georgian parliament building during a rally against the "foreign influence" bill. 
Giorgi Arjevanidze / AFP 
Protesters face up against law enforcement officers near the Georgian parliament in Tbilisi. 
Giorgi Arjevanidze / AFP 
Riot police drag a protester on the ground. 
Giorgi Arjevanidze / AFP 
Demonstrators carry a young woman who fainted during clashes with police. 
Zurab Tsertsvadze / AP / TASS 
Police use tear gas and a water cannon as demonstrators attempt to block the side entrance to the Georgian parliament. 
Giorgi Arjevanidze / AFP 
Protesters douse water on a man who was hit with tear gas during protests. 
Giorgi Arjevanidze / AFP 
Demonstrators throw garbage cans and wooden planks up against a side entrance to the Georgian parliament building to form a makeshift barricade. 
Zurab Tsertsvadze / AP / TASS 
Riot police detain a protester. 
Giorgi Arjevanidze / AFP 
Demonstrators hold up anti-Russia posters as they rally against the "foreign influence" bill. 
Vano Shlamov / AFP 
Protestors carrying Georgian flags clash with riot police. 
In Photos: Moscow Holds Third Victory Day Parade Since Ukraine Invasion 
May 09, 2024 - 02:57 pm 
Russia marked 79 years since the Soviet Union’s victory over Nazi Germany in WWII with its annual military parade, featuring an ever-shrinking number of military equipment at Red Square as the full-scale invasion of Ukraine drags on for a third year. Around 9,000 servicemen and 61 pieces of military equipment — including Yars intercontinental ballistic missile system, the S-400 surface-to-air missile system, and a flypast of airforce jets — took part in the parade overseen by President Vladimir Putin. In his traditional Victory Day speech, Putin conflated the current war in Ukraine with the defeat of Nazi Germany in 1945 and again threatened the West by warning that Russia’s nuclear forces were always on alert” despite the Kremlin’s wish to prevent a global conflict.” Here’s a closer look at this year’s procession: 
Russian servicemen march along Red Square in the traditional Victory Day military parade. 
Stanislav Krasilnikov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Vladimir Putin before the Victory Day parade with Belarusian leader Alexander Lukashenko and Kazakh President Kasym-Jomart Tokayev. 
kremlin.ru 
Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu at the military parade. 
An RS-24 Yars missile system rolls through Red Square. 
Alexander Avilov / Moskva News Agency 
Vladimir Putin with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov and Tajik President Emomali Rahmon during the parade. 
Vyacheslav Prokofiev, TASS / kremlin.ru 
Soldiers march through Red Square. 
Vladimir Gerdo, TASS / kremlin.ru 
Vladimir Putin delivers a speech before the military parade begins. 
In Photos: Moscow, St. Petersburg See Record-Warm Start to April 
Apr 02, 2024 - 04:43 pm 
April in Moscow started warm with a high of 20.3 degrees Celsius on Monday, well above the average high of 11.7 C for the month and the earliest recorded temperature above 20 degrees in Moscow's history. The snow has already melted two weeks ahead of schedule, as temperatures approached levels more often felt in late May or early June. St. Petersburg also warmed up to a daily record of 19.6 degrees Celsius on Monday, almost 10 degrees higher than the average 9.5 C, though it cooled down to a more normal high of 7 C by Tuesday. While residents flocked to outdoor cafes and parks to enjoy the weather, the unusual warmth is another indicator of climate change's impacts on Russia, from prolonged wildfire seasons to melting permafrost. For now, Muscovites and St. Peterburgers seemed happy to enjoy the sunshine before temperatures are expected to drop back down to freezing later in the week. 
Walking around Moscow on a record warm spring day, some people wear coats and others strappy dresses. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
Iced coffee, tank tops and al fresco dining make it look like summer in Moscow. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
A group of young people walks through Moscow. 
Two women walk, smiling as they hold their coats in their arms. 
Vasily Kuzmichenok / Moskva News Agency 
The state meteorological service's latest climate report says that 2023 was Russia’s third-hottest year since 1936; if this month is any indicator, 2024 could be warmer. 
Arthur Novosiltsev / Moskva News Agency 
People ride e-scooters along the Neva River in St. Petersburg. 
Alexander Demianchuk / TASS 
A view of the Triumphal Arch in St. Petersburg's Palace Square. 
Alexander Demianchuk / TASS 
While the warmth may have come as a relief after a cold winter, the state meteorological service warns that summer heatwaves could become the most significant climate threat to the Russian economy, causing deaths, crop failure and wildfires. 
In Photos: National Folklore Festival Gets Underway in Tatarstan 
May 27, 2024 - 05:39 pm 
Russia's Karavon Folklore Festival took place in the republic of Tatarstan's village of Russkoye Nikolskoye on Sunday. The festival aims to promote "traditional Russian culture," popularize folklore and award the best folk performances. Over 170 musical groups, dance troupes and other performers from across Russia were scheduled to appear at the festival. The event also included historical games, craft classes, pre-revolutionary fair attractions and opportunities to try various Russian foods. The festival, which was founded in 1993, has roots in 16th-century Orthodox celebrations of the Day of Saint Nicholas the Wonderworker. The name "Karavon" comes from the Old Church Slavonic word for "khorovod," a Russian circle dance that was once performed on this holiday. Here's a look at photos from the event: 
Women attend the Karavon festival on May 26. The date marks the Translation (movement) of the Relics of Saint Nicholas from Myra, in present-day Turkey, to Bari, in Italy. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
People ride a swing during the Karavon festival. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
A woman cooks blini, traditional Russian pancakes. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
Matryoshka dolls are pictured in front of Nikolskoye's Сhurch of Saint Nicholas the Wonderworker. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
Participants play lapta, a Russian folk team game with a ball and bat. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
People ride an old-fashioned carousel. 
In Photos: Orenburg Flooding Peaks as 'Colossal' Waters Rise in Neighboring Regions 
Apr 15, 2024 - 04:52 pm 
Ten days after the Ural River burst a dam in the city of Orsk and forced the evacuation of thousands, historic flooding continues to threaten Russia's southern Urals and western Siberia as well as the neighboring country of Kazakhstan. A combination of heavy rainfall and an unusually warm spring has led to dams bursting and rivers overflowing their banks across the area. In the Kurgan region which neighbors the Orenburg region, Governor Vadim Shumkov said Monday that a colossal” amount of water was expected to engulf the regional capital. Here is a look at photos from Orenburg, where officials say water levels have peaked and should start to recede early this week: 
A view of the flood-hit city of Orenburg. Russian emergency services said on Saturday they had evacuated thousands of people from the Orenburg region in the southern Ural Mountains as floodwater continued to rise. 
Olga Maltseva / AFP 
Cats rescued from the flood-hit city of Orsk travel in a vehicle owned by the Koshkin Dom animal shelter. The Orenburg mayor's office reported that 7,615 land plots and 3,540 homes have been flooded. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
Cats rescued from the flood-hit city of Orsk travel in a vehicle owned by the Koshkin Dom animal shelter. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
An aerial view of the flood-hit city of Orenburg. 
Andrei Borodulin / AFP 
An Orthodox priest takes a look from a belfry as the Church of Our Lady of the Sign rises over floodwater in Orenburg. 
A dog takes in a view of flooded Orenburg. 
Olga Maltseva / AFP 
An aerial view of the floods in Orenburg. 
Orenburg residents paddle rubber boats to salvage their belongings from a flooded residential area. 
Olga Maltseva / AFP 
Floodwater covers the Dubovy Plyos dacha neighborhood in Orenburg. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
Men travel in the bucket of an excavator amid flooding in the city of Orenburg. 
In Photos: Putin Inaugurated as President for Fifth Term 
May 07, 2024 - 03:13 pm 
Vladimir Putin was sworn in as President of Russia for a fifth term in a lavish inauguration ceremony Tuesday, which included a military procession, columns of armed guards, and a cavalry parade, as well as an Orthodox prayer service. Putin took the oath of office in the Kremlin’s gilded Saint Andrew’s Hall, where he was greeted by Russian officials and military brass. While Putin was constitutionally mandated to step down in 2024, changes made to Russia’s Constitution in 2020 reset” his presidential term limits, thus allowing him to stay in power until 2030. In March, the longtime Kremlin chief secured a six-year term after winning an election marred by widespread reports of fraud and where no real opposition was given the chance to run. 
Vladimir Putin heads off to his inauguration ceremony. 
kremlin.ru 
Soldiers of the Presidential Regiment carry a copy of the Russian Constitution and the presidential badge for the inauguration ceremony at the Grand Kremlin Palace. 
Alexander Kazakov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Vladimir Putin walks down the red carpet ahead of Tuesday’s swearing-in ceremony. 
Mikhail Metzel, TASS / kremlin.ru 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, and Patriarch Kirill seen before Putin’s inauguration. 
Vladimir Putin. 
Sergei Bobylev, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Vladimir Putin. 
Soldiers of the Presidential Regiment at Tuesday’s swearing-in ceremony. 
Alexander Kazakov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Russian Vladimir Putin seen taking the oath of office. 
Alexander Kazakov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matvienko and State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin seen at Putin’s inauguration ceremony. 
Alexander Kazakov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Vladimir Putin with Russian Constitutional Court Chairman Valery Zorkin, who led the swearing-in ceremony. 
Alexander Kazakov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Tuesday’s lavish ceremony, which started at noon local time, took place in the Grand Kremlin Palace, where hundreds of guests — including Russian government officials, members of parliament, celebrities, and business figures — were in attendance. 
Alexander Kazakov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Shortly after Tuesday’s inauguration ceremony, Putin attended a prayer service led by the head of the Russian Orthodox Church, Patriarch Kirill, who blessed the president. 
Alexei Maishev, Rossiya Segodnya / kremlin.ru 
God himself has entrusted you with serving Russia,” Patriarch Kirill told Putin during the service. 
Alexei Maishev, Rossiya Segodnya / kremlin.ru 
Patriarch Kirill also compared Putin to Alexander Nevsky, the medieval ruler of Novgorod, adding that he was praying for the president to remain in power until the end of the century.” 
In Photos: Russia Celebrates Another Wartime Easter 
May 06, 2024 - 05:37 pm 
Russians celebrated Orthodox Easter on Sunday with church services, religious processions, and traditional foods as the war in Ukraine, which also marked the holiday, dragged on for a third year. President Vladimir Putin attended a church service, led by the head of Russian Orthodox, Patriarch Kirill, in Moscow’s Christ the Savior Cathedral alongside Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin. Though Putin did not explicitly mention the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in his Easter message, the Russian president thanked Patriarch Kirill for fruitful cooperation in the current difficult period, when it’s so important for us to unite our efforts for the steady development and strengthening of the Fatherland.” The religious authorities in Russia have been outspoken in their support of the February 2022 invasion of Ukraine. 
A woman holds Easter cakes handed out to residents of the village of Spartak in eastern Ukraine's partially occupied Donetsk region. 
Dmitry Yagodkin / TASS 
A Russian serviceman holds a wooden tray of Easter cakes for soldiers fighting on the front line. 
Alexander Reka / TASS 
People attend an Easter service at a field church in the partially occupied Donetsk region. 
Dmitry Yagodkin / TASS 
A Russian Orthodox priest hands a prayer book to a soldier near the front line in Ukraine. 
Alexander Reka / TASS 
An elderly resident in Spartak holds an Easter cake. 
Dmitry Yagodkin / TASS 
President Vladimir Putin and Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin attend an Easter service at Christ the Savior Cathedral in Moscow. 
Sergei Vedyashkin / Moskva News Agency 
A Russian Orthodox believer holds two candles at the Easter service at Christ the Savior Cathedral. 
Sergei Vedyashkin / Moskva News Agency 
Russian Orthodox Patriarch Kirill leads the Easter service at Christ the Savior Cathedral. 
Sergei Vedyashkin / Moskva News Agency 
An Easter service in Moscow. 
Pelagia Tikhonova / Moskva News Agency 
An Easter procession around the Church of the Assumption in Moscow. 
Pelagia Tikhonova / Moskva News Agency 
A woman lights a candle at an Easter service in the Church of the Assumption in Moscow. 
In Photos: Russia Marks 10 Years of Crimea Annexation 
Mar 19, 2024 - 12:58 pm 
Ten years ago on March 18, 2014, Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine after sending special forces onto the peninsula in unmarked uniforms and staging a referendum deemed illegitimate by Kyiv and the West. The strategic Black Sea peninsula is recognized as part of Ukraine by the international community. These events marked the start of the Russo-Ukrainian War. The Kremlin used the annexation as a propaganda win, and the move caused President Vladimir Putin's popularity ratings to surge. Since 2022, Crimea has been used as a launching pad and supply route for Moscow's full-scale invasion of Ukraine. It has faced a number of drone attacks and bridge explosions during the war. Here are photos from the 10-year anniversary events in Moscow, St. Petersburg and Crimea itself: 
Actors in period costumes during a rally and concert on Red Square marking the 10th anniversary of Crimea's annexation. 
Mikhail Tereshchenko / TASS 
President Vladimir Putin and fellow presidential candidates Leonid Slutsky, Nikolai Kharitonov and Vladislav Davankov on stage at the concert rally on Red Square. 
kremlin.ru 
People attend a rally and concert in Red Square. According to media reports, employees at state agencies and companies were ordered to attend the rally. 
Mikhail Tereshchenko / TASS 
Vladimir Mashkov, artistic director of Oleg Tabakov Theater, Maryana Lysenko, chief doctor of Hospital No. 52, and Artem Zhoga, head of the People's Council of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic, on stage at the rally on Red Square. 
Mikhail Tereshchenko / TASS 
Putin hailed the "return" of Ukrainian territories to Russia during a concert marking 10 years since his country annexed Crimea — a step seen by many as a precursor to the 2022 full-scale offensive. 
Kirill Zykov, RIA Novosti / kremlin.ru 
Law enforcement officers stand guard outside the Kremlin during the concert on Red Square. 
AFP 
People attend a rally and a concert celebrating the 10th anniversary of Russia's annexation of Crimea in St. Petersburg. 
Olga Maltseva / AFP 
A monument to "polite people," also known as "little green men," the unmarked Russian forces who entered Crimea and seized strategic sites in February 2014, in the Square of the Republic near the State Council of Crimea in Simferopol. 
Sergei Malgavko / TASS 
A 28-meter Russian flag in the shape of a "V," a pro-invasion symbol, hangs from the Cape of Ai-Todor near the Swallow's Nest castle in Gaspra, Crimea. 
Yalta City Administration 
People take photos near a map of Crimea on Lenin Square in Simferopol. 
In Photos: Russians Celebrate Maslenitsa with Bonfires and Blini 
Mar 18, 2024 - 07:38 pm 
This past week Russians across the country celebrated Maslenitsa. The weeklong holiday marks Shrovetide, the last week before Lent begins, but has roots in Slavic pagan traditions. The holiday culminates in large bonfires and the burning of straw effigies — a symbolic funeral for the winter that has just passed. This is the last week Orthodox Christians can eat dairy products and fish before the rigorous Lenten fast, hence the holiday’s name Maslenitsa (Butter Week) or Cheesefare Week. It is associated with the eating of blini — traditional thin pancakes that are thought to symbolize the sun. They are topped topped with everything but meat, from caviar to sour cream to fruit preserves. Here's a look at the Maslenitsa celebrations in Moscow and at the Nikola-Lenivets art park in the Kaluga region: 
Maslenitsa at Nikola-Lenivets. Each year, Nikola-Lenivets builds a massive bonfire installation and burns it for hundreds of attendees. This year's bonfire represented a volcano. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
Many of those who celebrate Maslenitsa at Nikola-Lenivets come dressed in costumes and attire that invoke the holiday's pagan spirit. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
"The fire-breathing mountain looked at us for a long time, puffing smoke, giving us a chance to remember all the bad things we would like to leave in the past," Nikola-Lenivets said on its Instagram page of the volcanic bonfire. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
"Finally, fire erupted from the nozzle and ran down the hay slopes like lava flows. It had begun. Soon the whole mountain was aflame, reflecting in the melted water and the eyes of the spectators," the Instagram post said. 
In Photos: Russians Grapple With Heating Losses Amid Subzero Temperatures 
Jan 17, 2024 - 06:11 pm 
Several cities and regions across Russia have been hit by heating outages since late December as winter temperatures have dropped well below 0 degrees Celsius. In Podolsk south of Moscow, at least 149,000 residents were left without heating, while the Siberian city of Novosibirsk has seen two incidents in one week in which boiling water has run through the streets due to burst pipes, injuring locals. Here's a look into how Russia's regions are grappling with the recent incidents: 
A field kitchen and heating point following the heating outage in Podolsk, Moscow region. 
Alexei Belkin / Business Online / TASS 
A field kitchen and heating point following the heating outage in Podolsk, Moscow region. 
Alexei Belkin / Business Online / TASS 
Repair work underway at the scene of a heating pipe burst in Nizhny Novgorod. 
Georgy Povetkin / TASS 
Repair work at the scene of a heating pipe burst in Nizhny Novgorod. 
Georgy Povetkin / TASS 
A heating pipeline at the Mosenergo power company in Khimki, Moscow region. 
Sergei Bobylev / TASS 
After an accident in a boiler plant, 324 houses in Yekaterinburg were left without heating in severe cold weather. 
Donat Sorokin / TASS 
A heat pipeline at the Mosenergo power company in Khimki, Moscow region. 
Sergei Bobylev / TASS 
An apartment block in Novosibirsk rises from a puff of steam caused by a heating main accident. 
Kirill Kukhmar / TASS 
Utility workers repair a heating main in Novosibirsk. 
In Photos: Russia's First-Ever 'Games of the Future' 
Mar 04, 2024 - 06:01 pm 
Russia's first-ever Games of the Future cybersports tournament came to a close in Kazan on Sunday following 12 days of competition combining classic and cyber sports, including "phygital" (physical and digital) BMX cycling, drone racing and a "robot battle." Over 2,000 participants from around the world competed for $25 million in prize money in 21 activities, including a combined contest where teams first played the video game Counter-Strike 2 followed by a game of physical laser tag. President Vladimir Putin attended the opening on Feb. 21, trying his hand at phygital hockey while leaders from Belarus and Central Asian countries looked on. Here's a look at more photos from the event: 
President Vladimir Putin tries out the physical half of "phygital" (physical and digital) sport. In his opening speech, he said: "For centuries, Russia has been famous for its generosity and hospitality, always ready to welcome friends, to treat them to a big colorful celebration, including the joy of sports." 
Players from Kazan's Ak Bars team (in white) celebrate a goal against the Liga Pro Team in a "phygital" ice hockey match at Tatneft Arena. 
Donat Sorokin / TASS 
Nikita Fominov of the Savages team competes in the "phygital" BMX semifinals at Uram Extreme Park. 
Kirill Kukhmar / TASS 
Fans of the Boom Esports team at the third place round of the phygital Dota 2 video game tournament at the Kazan Expo center. 
Kirill Kukhmar / TASS 
Players compete in a Counter-Strike 2 and Laser Tag tournament at the Kazan Tennis Academy. 
Donat Sorokin / TASS 
A robot from the Russian Energy Girls team competes with a robot from the Indian DS Robotics team during quarterfinals of Battle of Robots, a robot combat tournament, held at the Kazan Circus. 
Kirill Kukhmar / TASS 
Participants pose for a photo. 
Games of the Future / VK 
A street installation promotes the 2024 Games of the Future, with the Kazan Kremlin and Kul Sharif Mosque in the background. 
In Photos: Russia Shows Off Captured Western Military Hardware at Moscow Expo 
May 01, 2024 - 06:07 pm 
Visitors on Wednesday flocked to the opening of a month-long exhibition of Western military equipment captured by Russian forces in Ukraine. The showcase, which is located at a World War II memorial park in Moscow, features 32 pieces of heavy equipment, including a U.S.-made M1 Abrams tank, a German-made Leopard 2A6 tank, a U.S.-made Bradley armored fighting vehicle, as well as other hardware. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov called the exhibition a brilliant idea,” adding that people must see the destroyed equipment.” Here’s a look at the showcase: 
Crowds of people gather to see Western armored vehicles on display. 
MT 
Visitors at the Moscow exhibition of Western military hardware captured in Ukraine. 
MT 
A U.S.-made M1 Abrams battle tank at the Moscow expo. 
Sergei Bulkin/TASS 
Russian soldiers stand beside a captured armored personnel carrier. 
A sign that reads: Our victory is inevitable.” 
MT 
A row of captured military trucks, including a U.S.-made Humvee. 
Sergei Bulkin/TASS 
A visitor at the Moscow exhibition brought their dog dressed in a Soviet military uniform. 
MT 
A poster of Russian soldiers that reads: Our defenders.” 
MT 
A British-made HUSKY armored vehicle with shrapnel damage on the front windshield. 
Russian Defense Ministry 
An armored personnel carrier displayed at the Moscow exhibition. 
MT 
A Turkish-made military truck captured in Ukraine. 
In Photos: Russia's Massive Patriotic Expo Draws Millions of Visitors to VDNKh 
At least 12 million people have visited the Russia Expo at Moscow's VDNKh exhibition center. The exhibition, which opened in November 2023 and runs through July 2024, describes itself as a large-scale projection of the entire country” and comes as the Kremlin pushes to increase public patriotism amid the invasion of Ukraine. In addition to displaying folk culture and costumes from across the country, the expo showcases "major scientific discoveries" and the "latest technological developments" from Russia’s regions — including the Kremlin-occupied Ukrainian regions of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia, as well as annexed Crimea. The expo, whose organizers include Russian ministries and state corporations like Gazprom, has also presented patriotic events, concerts and conferences. Here's a look at photos from the expo: 
Visitors at the Russia Expo. 
Artyom Geodakyan/TASS 
A 166-meter tunnel installation called "Russia's Achievements." 
The republic of Tyva's booth. 
Two military doctors who met in the Kremlin-occupied Donetsk region celebrate their wedding at the exhibition. 
Sergei Fadeichev/TASS 
A display shows the Kremlin-installed heads of Ukraine’s Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions signing documents to incorporate the four Ukrainian territories into Russia in 2022 following widely disputed referendums. 
MT 
The occupied Donetsk region's corner at the expo. 
The Leningrad region's booth at the Russia Expo international exhibition. 
MT 
A ceremony to award the expo's 12-millionth visitors. 
In Photos: Russia's Orenburg Region Hit With Worst Flooding in Decades 
Apr 09, 2024 - 03:35 pm 
Russia declared a state of emergency in the Orenburg region as it grappled with the worst flooding in decades, with further flooding expected both in Orenburg and in western Siberia's Kurgan and Tyumen regions. The Ural River overran its banks in the town of Orsk over the weekend after torrential rain burst a nearby dam, leaving the city submerged in water and forcing thousands from their homes. Downstream, Kazakhstan is also experiencing some of its worst floods in decades. Emergency services warned that the combination of rain and snow melt amid unusually warm temperatures could cause more rivers to overflow, with flooding expected to peak in some cities on Wednesday. Rescuers have headed to the region to assist in flooded areas and are preparing for worse to come. Here are some photos of the flooding and rescue efforts in Orsk and Orenburg: 
A view of flood-hit Gagarin Square in the town of Orsk, which has a population of around 200,000 people. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
A man rows a boat through the flooded streets. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
Orsk's Old Town has been inundated by the Ural River. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
People use an inflatable dinghy in a flood-hit area after a local dam broke in several places in Orsk. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
A view of a flood-hit area in the town of Orsk. The Kremlin said Monday that over 10,000 residential buildings had been flooded. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
An aerial view shows flood-hit areas of Orsk, 240 kilometers east of the regional capital, Orenburg. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
A school in a flooded street of Orsk. While waters are receding in Orsk, they continue to rise in Orenburg. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
People walk through thigh-high water in the flooded settlement of Priuralye, in the Orenburg region. 
Sergei Medvedev / TASS 
A view of the flooding in Orenburg, a city with a population of 560,000. 
Two dogs were rescued from rising water in Orsk, which is home to over 200,000 people. 
Russian Emergencies Ministry 
Families took their pets with them as they were rescued by boat from flooded houses. 
Russian Emergencies Ministry 
Rescuers bring a dog from a flooded house to safety in Orsk. 
In Photos: Ukraine's Mariupol After 2 Years of Russian Occupation 
Apr 25, 2024 - 02:07 pm 
The Ukrainian city of Mariupol was almost entirely razed to the ground during an 80-day Russian siege at the outset of its invasion in 2022. At least 8,000 residents of the city died of war-related causes during the siege, according to Human Rights Watch. Images of life and death in the besieged city — which were also depicted in the Oscar-winning 20 Days in Mariupol by Ukrainian director Mstyslav Chernov — made the name Mariupol synonymous with atrocities and horror inflicted by the Russian army. Shortly after capturing the city, Russia rushed in to realize its ambitious reconstruction plans by building scores of new apartment blocks and re-paving the roads, but the many reminders of recent destructions still remain on the city’s streets. 
A mural created by Italian artist Jorit on a residential building in Mariupol. 
Stringer / AFP 
A worker cleans debris near the bust of co-founder of the Soviet state Vladimir Lenin at a destroyed local museum. 
AFP 
Construction workers rebuild the Mariupol drama theatre, where between 300 and 600 people are estimated to have been killed by a Russian airstrike in 2022. 
Stringer / AFP 
A destroyed district of Mariupol. 
Stringer / AFP 
Construction workers ride bikes through a destroyed district of the city. 
AFP 
Workers clean debris near the heavily damaged building of the Chaika Palace of Culture. 
Stringer / AFP 
A ruined district of the city. 
Stringer / AFP 
A worker cleans a statue of Vladimir Lenin inside a destroyed local museum. 
President Vladimir Putin gave a wide-ranging interview to leading Russian TV presenter Dmitry Kiselyov on Wednesday, days ahead of the country’s presidential election where he is expected to easily win re-election. 
The hour-and-a-half-long televised interview focused heavily on domestic political and economic issues with some attention given to Russia’s foreign policy, particularly its two-year war against Ukraine. 
Here's a look at the interview’s highlights: 
On the invasion of Ukraine and the potential for peace talks with Kyiv and the West 
Putin said he was ready "for a serious conversation" aimed at ending hostilities, but only if the negotiations take place on Moscow's terms. 
"These demands [by Ukraine] are based on some wishful thinking after the use of psychotropic substances," he said, referring to Kyiv’s refusal to negotiate unless Russian troops completely withdraw from Ukraine’s territory. 
Putin appeared to be referencing unfounded claims often aired on Russian state television that Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky uses drugs. 
Meanwhile, the Russian leader said that security guarantees for Russia would be a precondition for any peace talks. 
"We need guarantees. The guarantees should be spelled out, should be ones that would suit us, that we would believe in." 
On pro-Kyiv militias’ attacks on Russian border regions 
The interview was aired hours after volunteer groups of Russians fighting on the side of Ukraine made a brazen attack on western Russia's border regions of Kursk and Belgorod. 
"It's simple. This is all happening amid [Ukraine’s] failures on the frontline. They did not achieve any of the goals that they set for themselves last year," Putin said. 
"I have no doubt that the main goal is, if not to disrupt the presidential election in Russia, then to somehow interfere with the normal process," he said. 
On the possibility of U.S. forces fighting in Ukraine 
Putin said the Kremlin would view the appearance of U.S. troops on Ukrainian territory the same as if they entered Russian territory. 
"We know what American troops on Russian territory means. They are interventionists. That's how we will treat it, even if they enter the territory of Ukraine, they [U.S. leadership] understand that." 
Although, he claimed that "the militaries of Western countries have been present in Ukraine for a long time," referring to what the Kremlin says are mercenaries. 
"But if we talk about official military contingents of foreign countries, I am sure it will not change the situation on the battlefield," he added. 
On nuclear conflict 
The Russian leader said his country is "prepared for nuclear war from a military-technical point of view," adding that Moscow has its troops "constantly on the alert." 
"Our triad, the nuclear triad, is more modern than any other triad. Only we and the Americans actually have such triads. And we have advanced much more here." 
"We are ready to use weapons, including any weapons — including the weapons you mentioned — if it is a question of the existence of the Russian state or damage to our sovereignty and independence," he said. 
When asked whether Russia will carry out nuclear tests, Putin said that he "does not rule out a test if the U.S. is the first to do so." 
On rumors of post-election tax hikes 
Recent media reports suggest that Russia plans to hike corporate taxes following the presidential election to help fund the war effort. Putin, while not commenting directly on the reports, hinted that the government may soon introduce a kind of "progressive tax." 
"The distribution of the tax burden should be fair in the sense that corporations, legal entities and individuals who earn more should contribute more, to put it plainly." 
He declined to reveal more details. 
Later on Wednesday, Russian lawmakers announced they had started work on a tax reform bill. 
Like other infrastructure projects in the U.S.S.R., the Krapivinskaya hydropower plant was born at a time when the Soviets dreamt of bending the natural world to its will to fuel industrial growth. 
Decades later, this rusting hulk of concrete and iron still looms above the Tom River in Siberia’s coal-rich Kemerovo region, half-finished and half-forgotten. 
This may soon change, as the Russian government seeks to diversify the local economy in Kemerovo (Kuzbass) away from coal. And big business, aiming to align itself with the fight against climate change, sees hydropower as a way to reduce its carbon emissions. 
The push for Krapivinskaya is driven by the interests of aluminum giant Rusal and its parent company En+, which seeks to produce aluminum using renewable hydropower and boast of its low carbon footprint to international markets, experts and activists told The Moscow Times. 
Meanwhile, those in the local community who speak out against the project, wary of its environmental impact, have been subjected to intimidation. 
I became interested [in the project] because hydropower plants are seen as renewable, clean energy sources — but as it turned out, that's not the case at all,” a local activist opposing the project since 2021 told The Moscow Times. 
"I realized this when I started speaking with people and specialists involved with [the project]. When I found out that the construction was frozen in 1989, I realized that it was for a reason," they said. 
The activist requested anonymity due to the possibility of repercussions for speaking to foreign media. 
The original Soviet plan for the Krapivinskaya hydropower plant and reservoir, which aimed to regulate the Tom River’s flow and improve water quality, was stalled in 1989 due to a lack of funding and disagreements over its environmental impact. 
In recent years, businesses like the state-owned hydropower company RusHydro and the aluminum giant Rusal have voiced an interest in completing the Krapivinskaya plant. 
In a bid to expand its low-carbon portfolio, Russian hydropower group and aluminum producer En+ pledged in March an investment of 500 billion rubles ($5.4 billion) in several large hydropower plants in Siberia, with Krapivinskaya identified as a priority. 
Officials in Kuzbass argue that the project will improve water quality, form strategic freshwater reserves and create 3,300 new jobs. 
However, some residents, skeptical of these purported benefits, have turned to legal means to halt the project. 
Yet their efforts have not gone unchallenged by Russia’s law enforcement agencies. 
'Blatant lawlessness' 
During public hearings on the Krapivinskaya project held in February 2022 across several districts in Kuzbass, certain residents encountered obstacles in attending. 
Some were shut out of the hearings, while others were stopped by traffic police en route and sent to a narcology clinic for drug tests. 
"It was the first time I had witnessed such blatant and undisguised lawlessness. When activists first called and registered for the hearings, they were told, 'Okay, come.' But when they arrived, the door was closed," the anonymous activist said. 
In March, police raided the apartment of Maxim Andrianov, a local public interest lawyer. He also received threats from unknown individuals and had his tire slashed in 2022. Some link the pressure on Andrianov to his opposition to Krapivinskaya. 
Activists say that the project is more likely to harm the environment than benefit it. Residents of the settlements that will be submerged if the hydropower plant is completed have also voiced opposition. 
The Kuzbass administration had initially approached the project with caution, said the activist. But when former Governor Sergei Tsivilyov came to power in 2018, authorities started to present it in a positive light. 
Tsivilyov, who is reportedly married to President Vladimir Putin's great-niece and was appointed as Russia’s energy minister this month, is notorious for his intolerance of protesters. 
"I'll crush anyone who tries to attack the authorities,” local media quoted him as saying during a 2020 meeting with the public. 
With the authorities, you need to ... sit down at the table and find the optimal solution together. Not to jump out to rallies with drug addicts — but to sit down and talk.” 
For now, activists have managed to delay the project, winning several cases where courts deemed the 2022 public hearings in several districts illegal. 
Taming the river 
Attempting to paint the Krapivinskaya hydropower plant as a low-carbon energy source is complete nonsense,” ecologist Yevgeny Simonov told The Moscow Times. 
The flooding required to construct the plant would release methane, a potent greenhouse gas, Simonov said. 
"There will be huge methane emissions coming from decaying organic matter at the bottom [of the created reservoir]. Additionally, there will be many shallow areas, so this methane will quickly reach the surface,” Simonov said. 
According to a 2022 environmental impact assessment (EIA), the flooding will reach two nature reserves, six cemeteries and two livestock burial grounds. Nearly 1,000 people from nearby villages will be forced to relocate. 
Significant parts of two large reserves will be lost. These reserves are crucial for hoofed animals and other wildlife, and the creation of the reservoir will bring nothing good in terms of their migration and protection because the area will become much more accessible to poachers,” Simonov said. 
Another point of concern is the potential impact on the Tom River’s ecosystem and water quality, as wastewater from the city of Novokuznetsk and coal mines in the region will flow into the new reservoir. 
Simonov said the construction on the Tom River, one of the last major Siberian rivers still untouched by major dams, could impact the migration routes of fish species including taimen and grayling. 
The flooding zone is home to dozens of protected plant and mushroom species, and the construction itself will result in the loss of land habitats for animals as well as spawning grounds for diverse aquatic life. 
Though the EIA contains proposed measures to compensate for the project’s environmental impacts, such as fish stocking, experts see them as inadequate. 
A significant portion of the Kemerovo region is already heavily disturbed, and here [on the Tom], together with a nature reserve located higher up in the mountains, is a kind of enclave of environmental well-being,” Simonov said. 
[The construction] will undermine the fish stocks and destroy ecosystems, and large natural areas used by the public for recreation will also be lost.” 
As the Russian government plans to use taxpayer money to fund Krapivinskaya’s completion, Simonov believes the project is highly corruption-prone due to its abnormal cost sheet. 
"There is a huge opportunity to allocate an endless amount of money for non-standard solutions to adapt structures built 40 years ago to modern construction needs. This involves piece work with costs that are truly unknown to anyone,” the expert added. 
Uncertain outlook 
Aside from the public resistance, financial struggles have also complicated the Krapivinskaya stakeholders’ plans. 
In January, Deputy Energy Minister Pavel Snikkars said that the government was in discussions to choose the company that would complete the Krapivinskaya plant. 
Another factor that could prolong the project's timeline is the impact of Western sanctions. 
Rusal’s exports are set to fall by about one-third after the U.S. and U.K. placed sanctions on Russian aluminum in April, the Kommersant business daily reported. 
Deputy Industry and Trade Minister Viktor Yevtukhov urged against "dramatizing the situation around Rusal," pointing to China as a more significant market for Russia. 
Reducing the carbon footprint of aluminum production can be an advantage when selling to Western markets. The European Union, for example, will require importers to pay a carbon price for the amount of emissions embedded in their products starting from 2026. 
But if Russia loses access to Western markets, it is uncertain whether businesses will remain committed to low-carbon products and building the large hydropower plants needed to manufacture them. 
At the same time, those opposing the Krapivinskaya plant may face increased pressure as Russia’s crackdown on public dissent intensifies. Some Kuzbass activists have allegedly been forced to sign a military contract to avoid jail. 
"Well, what can I say... There's no rule of law anymore. Proving something in court, achieving any justice — it's impossible," the anonymous activist said. 
But Simonov believes that as Rusal loses markets and funding for green projects shrinks, the incentive to rebuild its plants and connect them to green electricity will start to approach zero.” 
He said that the unfinished dam on the Tom River could safely be mothballed. 
"It's a wonderful recreational asset, it looks absolutely brilliant,” Simonov said. It doesn't threaten anyone; it stands away from the main river in the floodplain.” 
So I think it will all end up becoming a climbing school, and the Kemerovo region will have a wonderful recreational facility in a beautiful natural area — I'm optimistic in that sense." 
En+ and Rusal did not respond to The Moscow Times’ requests for comment. 
Amid the plains of Russia's North Caucasus republic of Dagestan lies Novaya Urada, a village of 1,000 residents. 
This community, some 30 kilometers northwest of the regional capital Makhachkala, has deep roots in livestock farming and each year draws tourists hoping to photograph a vibrant poppy field nearby. 
Yet Novaya Urada was thrown into upheaval early last year when residents, facing the construction of a waste dump just several hundred meters from their doorstep, had to resort to protests. 
Imagine: just as the livestock comes right out from the gates, it sees a beautiful landfill! Immediately!” a Novaya Urada resident who identified himself as Magomed told The Moscow Times. 
We learned that a landfill is planned to be built near our homes … without taking our opinion into account,” said Magomed, who withheld his surname in order to speak candidly. 
As a patriot and a local concerned about the children’s health, I of course joined the protest after reviewing the project papers.” 
In one of the latest moves to address an escalating garbage crisis, regional authorities decided to build a landfill near this small community in the Kumtorkalinsky district, assuring locals from the beginning that they had nothing to worry about. 
The first time the conversation on this topic started … we didn't even know such a term 'landfill',” Magomed said. They told us about high-tech waste processing plants that Germany couldn't even dream of.” 
While three new waste-processing facilities should come to the republic in 2024, the site near Novaya Urada will serve as a conventional landfill expected to receive 300 tons of non-recyclable garbage each year. 
‘Greta Thunberg of Dagestan’ 
In April 2023, Magomed was standing in the district police station as locals resorted to legal means to halt the works on the waste facility. 
That day, alongside other Novaya Urada residents, he sought help from law enforcement. But the police officers just held him there for about an hour, citing minor errors in the paperwork. 
They tried to scare me and explain, like, 'You're addressing the wrong place, you first need to find out whose land it is. And who are you, what are your qualifications?'” Magomed said. I blinked my eyes. 'Where should we go then? We came to the police, after all. Where should we seek protection?'” 
In other words, the police wanted to lecture me so I wouldn't do such things anymore and just send me home.” 
Almost a year after construction began, residents continue to knock on all doors, refusing to accept the idea of living near the dump site, which they claim received the go-ahead without proper public hearings and environmental impact assessment. 
Hundreds have protested and appealed to President Vladimir Putin several times over the past year, expressing concerns over the waste facility’s potential impact on the environment, human health and livelihoods. 
The neighbor [gardener] as a private investor will be directly affected both physically and financially from all sides. He might as well consider moving somewhere far away, leaving behind and writing off everything he invested there,” Magomed said. 
Residents claim that the construction has already destroyed the poppy field that many previously enjoyed. Now they fear for the Sarykum Dune, a protected sand hill six kilometers from the planned waste site that is home to rare flora and fauna. 
An abandoned oil well under the construction site further darkens the picture. 
Even children have become involved, with a primary school student named Karima becoming known as a local Greta Thunberg” after she spoke out. 
With a stern tone and demeanor resembling that of the renowned Swedish climate activist, Karima posed a tough question to Putin and Dagestan’s head Sergei Melikov. 
I want to address Melikov and Vladimir Vladimirovich Putin. Why not build it near your city or village?” Karima said in a video published in January. I want you to build this landfill in a location where there is no nature. After all, this whole area will be poisoned!” 
As the protesters’ situation became more desperate, mobilized soldiers with Dagestani roots fighting in Ukraine joined the outcry. They addressed Melikov from the frontlines several times in an apparent last-ditch attempt to grab the authorities’ attention. 
From the first days, we have been in the zone of the ‘special military operation,’ ready to sacrifice our lives for the interests of our homeland,” an unidentified man in military uniform said in a video in September, with two other soldiers standing near him. 
But how can we fight here when the lives of our relatives and loved ones and the future of our nature are in danger?” he added. 
In response to the backlash, authorities organized a few meetings with the public, making statements on the facility’s environmental safety and its full compliance with modern standards. 
I personally take responsibility for the fact that no harm will come to anyone from this facility,” Melikov said in August. And we will show you on television how safe it is.” 
Circular vision 
Last year, Dagestan authorities acknowledged problematic issues” with waste in the region, including waste management companies’ incapacity to handle increasing garbage volumes. 
According to official data, the number of illegal landfills in Dagestan is on the rise, reaching 112 in 2022. 
Dagestan’s hurdles are a symptom of Russia’s far-flung waste crisis, with mounting garbage becoming a growing headache for officials across the country. 
Federal authorities voice a willingness to tackle the landfills problem but aim even higher. In recent years, their rhetoric has increasingly focused on shifting to a circular economy, a transformative model enabling reduced resource consumption through sharing, reusing and repairing, thus minimizing waste and combating climate change. 
In January, Deputy Prime Minister Viktoria Abramchenko, who oversees the environment, named effective waste management and transition to a circular economy as the primary directions” of Russia’s environmental policies. Among the goals for 2030 are recycling 100% of waste in the country and reducing landfilling by half. 
While cases like Novaya Urada highlight the gap between a circular future and matters on the ground near people’s homes, Russia is indeed taking some strides toward a closed-loop economy. 
As an example, the country is wasting fewer resources by directing more of them toward recycling, a circular economy expert told The Moscow Times. 
However, measures to reduce waste in the first place, such as special product and packaging design, repairability and extending product life cycles, are still lacking. 
In general, the country has the intention to reduce landfilling,” said the expert, who requested anonymity due to their affiliation with a group that has been targeted by the Russian authorities. 
Gradually, the issue will be resolved, but for an effective result, it is necessary to increase the efficiency of all related processes, and it all starts with [reducing waste generation].” 
The expert also pointed to the importance of proper garbage sorting when building waste-processing facilities like those in Dagestan. Currently, only 7.6% of household waste in Russia is extracted for second use due to inefficient sorting in residential areas. 
However, if separate collection by fractions is introduced, and food waste is separated, then the extraction of secondary resources … significantly increases and can reach 60-65%.” 
But small towns and villages like those in Dagestan often lack waste collection points, containers and transport. 
Even if you organize separate waste collection at home, to dispose of it, you will have to go somewhere, to wait for recycling events. All this significantly hinders the launch of waste processing [in the country]," the expert concluded. 
Uneven fight 
While Dagestan officials grapple with a chronic waste problem with no easy fix, citizens have collected nearly 36,000 signatures against the landfill at Novaya Urada. 
Troubles elsewhere in the region such as street garbage pileups or smoldering landfills do not add to residents' confidence about the future. 
In a clear lack of trusted dialogue between people and the state, Melikov once portrayed those opposing landfills as public enemies acting in pursuit of big money.” 
We are concerned about our health. Politics there, politics here — leave us alone,” Magomed said. We just care about our home, our garden, our future and our children — that's all that concerns us.” 
In a rare instance of the authorities siding with citizens, Dagestan’s Supreme Court deemed the lower court's refusal to consider residents’ lawsuit to have been illegal in November. 
I live by the principle that the impossible is possible. I'm certainly not giving up. But the determination of myself and a few others is not enough in this situation,” Magomed said. 
I hope that somehow, miraculously, they will reconsider [the project] because our forces are not equal, and we can't do anything about it.” 
Mikhail Fishman, an anchor for the independent TV Rain news channel and researcher of the history of Russian journalism, discusses the history of press freedom in Russia, how it is disappearing under President Putin and why freedom of the press is vital for society. 
This lecture at The Hague University of Applied Sciences is part of a series of lectures organized by The Moscow Times at European universities and given by Russian media professionals. 
Eight swimmers from around the world braved the freezing waters of Lake Baikal in Siberia this week to raise awareness toward the environmental threats facing the world’s largest and oldest freshwater lake. 
Lake Baikal, a UNESCO World Heritage site, has been plagued with environmental problems caused by industrial pollution, mining, sewage discharge and agricultural run-off. Its latest threat comes from a law signed by President Vladimir Putin last August that effectively permits clear-cutting of trees in specially protected natural areas in order to build or upgrade transport infrastructure. 
On Monday, the eight marathon swimmers from Europe, Africa and the United States shed their wetsuits for a two-day relay swim to cross Lake Baikal and the Angara River, intending to cross 120 kilometers. 
But the race had to be cut short at 70 kilometers due to water temperatures plunging as low as 9 degrees Celsius (48 Fahrenheit). 
It was hard,” said Andrei Bugay, who organized and participated in the third annual event dubbed the Baikal Great Swim. 
We didn't have time to recover ... nothing helps, neither sauna nor hot shower, we were shaking and shivering, then falling into the water and swimming,” The Associated Press quoted Bugay as saying. 
The two previous swims — with and without wetsuits — covered 55 kilometers. 
I wish that we would have made it to the other side, but it was the best adventure with the best team that I could ever hope for,” said U.S. swimmer Jamie Monahan. 
Video published by Reuters showed the eight athletes crossing the finish line in the Eastern Siberian city of Irkutsk one day after starting in the village of Vydrino. 
The news agency reported that the swimmers from France, Italy, South Africa and Morocco, as well as the U.S. and Russia, had spent about 26 hours in the water with short pauses in a dinghy. 
Elvira only found out that her son, a soldier serving in Russia’s Armed Forces, had been taken prisoner when she received a phone call from a Ukrainian security officer. 
I was really shocked when Ukraine’s Security Service called me to say that my son was in captivity,” Elvira told The Moscow Times, recalling the moment a few weeks after the Russian invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022. 
Despite dozens of prisoner exchanges between Russia and Ukraine over the following year, her son remains held in a Ukrainian prison — with no sign of imminent release. 
I pray to God every day to help me bring him home,” said Elvira, who repeatedly broke into tears during a phone interview. 
All I want is for my heart not to stop beating so I can get him out.” 
Her son is one of the thousands of Russian soldiers to have been taken prisoner by Ukraine in over 13 months of fighting, with the families of many of the imprisoned men alleging the Russian authorities are not doing enough to bring them home. 
In some cases, relatives have said they located captured soldiers on their own — or with the help of Ukrainian YouTube channels and social media groups — and then had to pressure the Defense Ministry to formally register their loved ones as prisoners of war, a designation that makes them eligible to be included in a prisoner exchange. 
However, the Kremlin’s criteria for requesting prisoners be included in a swap is unclear, and the painstaking negotiations over such exchanges — which often take months — are routinely accompanied by mutual accusations of dishonesty. 
Alina Maksimovskaya, the girlfriend of a Russian PoW, told The Moscow Times that she discovered her boyfriend Andrei Zavyalov had been taken prisoner in Ukraine when she saw interviews he gave to Ukrainian TV channels from captivity. 
After that, she appealed to the military authorities to add him to the official PoW list. 
I knew that every moment counted,” said Maksimovskaya. We didn’t know if he was still alive or not and what had happened to him.” 
She said she found it difficult to reach representatives of the Russian Defense Ministry or the Red Cross. It was hard to get anyone on the hotlines,” she said. 
Zavyalov was eventually released in a prisoner swap in late October. 
Other relatives of Russian prisoners of war have made similar complaints about the Russian authorities — and the difficulties of drawing attention to the plight of their loved ones. 
Until I personally appealed to the president of the Russian Federation… my son was not added [to the official list of prisoners of war],” Irina Chistyakova, the mother of a Russian prisoner of war, said in a video online in December. 
Her son, Kirill, was conscripted shortly before the invasion and, according to Chistyakova, went missing last March in Ukraine’s Kharkiv region. 
As part of her hunt to find out what had happened, she looked through numerous photos of dead soldiers and visited a military morgue in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don. 
Eventually, she spoke to a freed Russian PoW who told her that Kirill was a prisoner in Ukraine. Kirill remains in captivity in Ukraine. 
Just as Russia does not publish statistics on its military casualties in Ukraine, there is no official data on the number of Russian soldiers who have been taken prisoner. 
The Ukrainian Coordination Headquarters for PoWs claimed earlier this month that almost 10,000 Russian soldiers had attempted to surrender via a special hotline. 
While the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) told The Moscow Times that it doesn't ​​disclose information on prisoner numbers, ICRC Ukraine spokesman Alexander Vlasenko said in December that there were thousands” of PoWs held in both countries. 
Since the start of the war, Moscow and Kyiv have organized at least 38 prisoner exchanges, according to Ukraine, in which over 2,700 prisoners were exchanged. 
Little is known about the secretive negotiations between Russia and Ukraine that precede prisoner swaps — although Russia’s negotiations are carried out by the Defense Ministry with the assistance of presidential human rights commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova. 
The mother of one Russian prisoner of war, who requested anonymity to speak freely, told The Moscow Times that her son was swapped after less than six weeks in captivity. 
Others, like Elvira's son and Kirill Chistyakov, have been waiting more than a year. 
According to Ukrainian officials, Russia’s representatives regularly request soldiers with in-demand military skills to be included in swaps. 
But there is also evidence of political interference. 
In one particularly controversial prisoner exchange — heavily criticized by some pro-war commentators — the Kremlin freed 215 PoWs, including captured foreigners and senior Ukrainian commanders from the Azov Regiment, in September in exchange for at least 55 Russian PoWs and Viktor Medvedechuk, a close friend and ally of President Vladimir Putin. 
And Yevgeny Nuzhin, a prison inmate recruited to fight for mercenary company Wagner, was apparently released by Ukraine in a swap late last year. Shortly after, he was executed by Wagner in what many believed to be a punishment killing for a pro-Ukraine interview he gave whilst in captivity. 
Neither Russia’s human rights commissioner nor the Defense Ministry responded to requests for comment from The Moscow Times. 
Much of the concern expressed by relatives of Russian PoWs is focused on whether their loved ones are suffering violence or mistreatment in Ukrainian hands. 
The United Nations’ human rights mission in Ukraine, which interviewed 175 Russian PoWs for a November report, has said that the prisoners told them of summary executions and several cases of torture and ill-treatment mostly when they were captured, first interrogated, or moved to transit camps and places of internment.” 
However, some former Russian PoWs have recounted being treated well by their captors. 
Freed Russian PoW Mikhail Radygin said in a December interview with local television that conditions in captivity were normal” but that some prisoners had been beaten. 
They follow the Geneva Convention there,” Radygin said in the video, which was later deleted after it attracted widespread online attention. 
According to Maksimovskaya, her boyfriend Zavyalov wasn’t mistreated in captivity, but she said others [released PoWs] told some stories about violence.” 
As the two sides remain bogged down in static warfare in the east of the country, many expect there to be fewer instances of surrender in coming months. 
The Kremlin has also taken legal steps to deter soldiers from giving themselves up — last year Russia introduced jail terms of up to 10 years for "voluntary" surrender. 
In the meantime, hundreds of Russian families continue to wait on the release of relatives held in Ukrainian jails. 
Elvira said her son passes messages along to her through other Russian PoWs who are freed in prisoner swaps. 
He is asking for help,” Elvira said. I just want my son back home.” 
Israel has no right to self-defense against Hamas militants in Gaza as an occupying power in Palestine, Russia’s ambassador to the United Nations said Wednesday. 
Vasily Nebenzya used his speech at the special UN General Assembly session on Palestine to condemn Western hypocrisy” over Palestinian civilian deaths amid their criticism of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
The only thing [the West] can muster is continued pronouncements about Israel’s supposed right to self-defense. Although, as an occupying power, it does not have that power,” Nebenzya said. 
He cited a 2004 advisory opinion by the Hague-based International Court of Justice (ICJ), which states that Israel cannot invoke the UN Charter’s article on the right to self-defense when acting against threats from occupied territory. 
Israel argues that it has not occupied Gaza since 2005, when it withdrew military and civilians from the region. However, a number of international organizations say that Israel has occupied Palestinian territories, including the Gaza Strip, since 1967. 
In a thinly veiled reference to his country’s 21-month invasion of Ukraine, Nebenzya said: In other situations, [Western nations] call for the respect of humanitarian law, set up inquiry commissions and impose sanctions on those who use force as a last resort to stop years of violence.” 
Nebenzya said Israel’s right to ensure its security can be fully guaranteed only in the case of a just solution to the Palestinian problem on the basis of the well-known UN Security Council resolutions.” 
We don’t deny Israel’s right to fight terror, but fight terrorists and not civilians.” 
Nebenzya slammed Washington and its allies for remaining silent” as the civilian death toll from Israel’s bombardment in Gaza continued to grow. 
Russia has called on Israel and Hamas authorities in Gaza to reach a cease-fire agreement and allow mediators to work on a diplomatic solution to the decades-long conflict. 
Moscow maintains ties with both Israel and Hamas, which sent a delegation to Russia last week. 
Protesters in Georgia have for weeks rallied against a controversial "foreign influence" bill that critics say resembles legislation in Russia used to crack down on independent media and the opposition. Introduced by the ruling Georgian Dream party, the draft law would force organizations receiving more than 20% of their funding from abroad to register as entities "pursuing the interests of a foreign power." The bill's third and final reading is expected on May 13. 
In this episode, we spoke with Bidzina Lebanidze, Senior Analyst at the Georgian Institute of Politics, about why the ruling party is trying to pass the "foreign influence" bill and what negative consequences they might face if it is adopted. We also sat down with journalist Marta Ardashelia to talk about the ongoing protests against the draft law in Tbilisi. 
Russia on the Record is a podcast where Moscow Times journalists, independent experts and ordinary Russians reflect, analyze and explain what’s going on in Russia right now. 
Washington claimed last month that Russia was buying weapons from North Korea and using those weapons in Ukraine. 
The allegations that the two heavily sanctioned states were stepping up military cooperation came almost nine months into Russia’s war against its pro-Western neighbor that has severely depleted its stocks of artillery shells, ammunition and cruise missiles. 
If true, the transfers would violate an arms embargo placed on Pyongyang in 2016 by the United Nations. 
The Moscow Times looked at the evidence of such weapons sales — and the impact that North Korean hardware could be having on the battlefield in Ukraine. 
What is the evidence of North Korean arms supplies? 
Aside from the claims by U.S. officials, much is guesswork. 
The weapons and munitions owned by Pyongyang are mostly manufactured according to Soviet designs and could be easily deployed by Russian forces, Darya Dolzikova, a research fellow at London-based Royal United Services Institute, told The Moscow Times. 
While there has been no evidence of North Korean weapons on the battlefield — unlike in the case of Iranian drones used by Russia — this does not necessarily mean that North Korean weapons or munitions are not being deployed in Ukraine. 
North Korea could be supplying types of munitions that are hard to identify, for example, and shipments into Russia and transportation to the front could be disguised, according to analysts. 
What weapons could Pyongyang be sending to Moscow? 
The U.S. has alleged that Russia is buying millions of artillery shells from North Korea. 
This sort of purchase would fit with the needs of Russia’s style of fighting in Ukraine, which involves the intense use of artillery and missile attacks. 
Russia has used BM-21 [Grad missile launchers] in Ukraine extensively and North Korea has sold 122mm rockets before,” said Daniel Salisbury, an arms trade expert and senior research fellow at the Center for Science and Security Studies at King’s College London. 
Pyongyang has other weapons which Moscow could need, as well. 
In addition to anti-tank and surface-to-air missiles, North Korea has extensive stockpiles of ammunition and rocket-propelled grenades. 
And, crucially, Pyongyang could help Russia restore its depleted supplies of missiles. 
According to Salisbury, North Korea could provide equipment similar to Russia’s Tochka-U ballistic missile system, which Russia has used to target Kyiv’s artillery. 
Ukrainian President Volodomyr Zelensky said last month that Russia had fired over 4,700 missiles over the course of the conflict, including barrages of missiles aimed at destroying Ukraine’s energy infrastructure. 
This has likely reduced Russia’s stockpiles, with The New York Times reporting last week that Russia is now firing munitions manufactured in the last few months. 
How could Russia be receiving these weapons? 
Amid a UN arms embargo and sanctions on Moscow imposed in the wake of February’s invasion, North Korea and Russia are likely using clandestine supply channels. 
States like to keep any illicit arms transactions that breach sanctions secret due to the legal implications, but my guess is they’re probably worried about the U.S. and others trying to disrupt shipments,” Salisbury said. 
While North Korea and Russia share a 17-kilometer land border, reduced trade after the coronavirus pandemic means arms transfers would be relatively easy to spot if they were sent directly into Russia on trains or trucks. 
Instead, it’s more likely that any weapons shipments are passing through a third country, according to Salisbury. 
This is not unusual for North Korea, who frequently send things via circuitous routes in order to deceive anyone who might be watching,” he said. 
How could the receipt of North Korean weapons help Russia in Ukraine? 
Procuring weapons from countries like Iran and North Korea could provide a stopgap for Moscow as it ramps up domestic defense production to meet the military’s needs, according to Sam Cranny-Evans, a defense analyst at London’s Royal United Services Institute. 
This would allow Russia to keep fighting at a similar tempo. 
[Russia is] essentially competing with the West’s industrial output now, and they need to shift their defense economy accordingly, which will take time,” Cranny-Evans said. 
At the same time, experts believe that there are risks associated with North Korean missiles and ammunition, which are not likely to have been manufactured to a high standard. 
Russia has no idea what the quality control in North Korea is like," William Alberque, the director of arms control at the International Institute for Strategic Studies, told The Moscow Times. 
"And if there’s one place I have a little bit less faith in quality control than Russia, it would be North Korea.” 
Today, May 4, marks one year since Russian theater director Yevgenia Berkovich and playwright Svetlana Petriychuk were arrested. The two women, thrown behind bars on bogus charges of publically justifying terrorism” and spreading its propaganda over an award-winning play they staged together, are facing up to seven years in prison. Though the case against them was moved to trial in April, the first hearing has been pushed back to October at the earliest. 
Earlier this spring, Berkovich and Petriychuk were put on the government’s list of terrorists and extremists,” blocking them from drawing any funds from their bank accounts, except 10,000 rubles – just over $90 – per month for basic necessities. Russian law allows this measure to be used against anyone convicted or merely suspected of terrorism or extremism-related crimes. 
Many journalists and commentators suggest that the absurd case against her and Petriychuk is in retaliation for Berkovich’s bold and compelling condemnation of the war in a series of poems she wrote shortly after the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. After all, Berkovich first directed a public reading of the play in 2019. It even won the prestigious Golden Mask prize in 2022, just a few months into the invasion. But it would take another year for law enforcement to raise any issues about the play. During that time, Berkovich’s defiant poems grew in number and visibility. 
The health of Berkovich’s two children has reportedly deteriorated in the course of their forced separation from her. Berkovich’s 89-year-old grandmother, the prominent writer and rights activist Nina Karteli, died seven months after her arrest. 
The play, Finist the Bright Falcon, which the authorities accused of propagating and justifying terrorism, is focused on Russian women being lured into ISIS and other militant Islamist organizations by online recruiters offering to marry them. The author and director were attempting to understand and explain the reasons many women across Russia are vulnerable to ISIS recruiters. 
The play is largely based on court records from the case of Varvara Karaulova, a 19-year-old philosophy student from Moscow who attempted to leave for Syria in 2015 but was arrested and eventually sentenced to 4.5 years in prison. In the play, a modified version of Karaulova’s story is interlaced with themes from Russian fairy tales. The play’s title, Finist the Falcon,” is named after the male protagonist of a popular fairy tale in which a young woman overcomes seemingly insurmountable obstacles for them to be together. 
I have watched online the very reading of the play on which the charges are based. While it aims to explore the tragedy of women who feel worthless being lured into ISIS by promises of love and a bright future, it contains no elements of ISIS propaganda. Quite the opposite. SOVA Center, a leading Russian think-tank researching prosecutions for terrorism and extremism, also examined the play closely and found no evidence it justified terrorism. Despite this, the prosecution and the dubious experts they invoked to support their case choose to equate an attempt to expose the root causes of terrorism with its justification. 
It is not the first time that Russian authorities have conflated these two distinct issues. In a notorious 2021 case Svetlana Prokopyeva, an independent journalist from Pskov, was ordered to pay a hefty fine on bogus terrorism charges for arguing that Russia’s repressive policies on speech and assembly radicalized young people. Before the verdict, her ability to travel was restricted for a year. Her name was placed on the terrorists and extremists” list, and her assets were frozen. 
As recently as in February this year, Boris Kagarlitsky, a university professor and editor-in-chief of the Marxist online publication Rabkor was handed a draconian sentence of five years in prison on charges of justifying terrorism” in a social media post in which he merely suggested that the 2022 attack on the Kerch strait bridge that connects occupied Crimea with Russia was unsurprising from the military viewpoint.” 
Kagarlitsky, like Berkovich, is a well-known opponent of Russia’s war in Ukraine. It is notable that the first sentence the court handed him was a fine of 600,000 rubles ($6,570). But the prosecutors appealed, claiming the verdict was excessively lenient. 
With Berkovich and Petriychuk behind bars for a whole year, and the Kremlin’s zero-tolerance war on critics and free expression, it is hard to be optimistic about the outcome of their case. But this should not be about optimism. What matters is that the Kremlin has an obligation to free these women, who have done nothing wrong, and to stop retaliating against its critics. It is everyone’s moral calling to show solidarity with them. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Jailed Russian opposition activist Vladimir Kara-Murza, who is serving a 25-year sentence for treason and fake news” about the war in Ukraine, has been transferred to a new penal colony and placed in a solitary confinement cell, the independent news outlet Novaya Gazeta reported Tuesday, citing his lawyer. 
The news comes just a day after Kara-Murza’s family said he had been moved from the IK-6 maximum-security penal colony in the Omsk region, some 2,700 kilometers east of Moscow, and sent to an unknown” location. 
On Friday, without any warning, I was called to the ‘commission’ for another ‘malicious violation’ when I did not get up at the command ‘rise,’” the jailed activist was quoted as having written to his lawyer. 
They decided to transfer me to [a solitary confinement cell], ‘so that life doesn’t seem all sunshine and roses,’” he added. 
Vladimir Kara-Murza has turned up 
His lawyer got a letter saying he's been moved to a prison in Omsk (IK-7) with tougher conditions, supposedly for 'malicious violation' of prison rules (not getting up on command, when the command wasn't given) 
According to Kara-Murza’s lawyer, he will remain in the solitary confinement cell at the new IK-7 penal colony in the Omsk region until May 26, but noted that this date could be changed.” 
The independent Meduza news website described the type of confinement cell the activist was placed in as the most severe form of punishment” available at a Russian prison. 
Kara-Murza, 42, was arrested in April 2022 after he criticized the Kremlin’s invasion of Ukraine. 
In April of last year, he was sentenced to 25 years in prison on charges of treason, false information about the Russian army” and affiliation with an undesirable” organization. 
His prison sentence is one of the longest to be handed down against an opposition figure in recent years. 
His lawyers and family have said his health has deteriorated in prison as he suffers from a nerve condition called polyneuropathy due to two near-fatal poisoning attempts in 2015 and 2017. 
The cigarette maker Japan Tobacco has adjusted its supply chains to comply with Western sanctions against Moscow and keep its business operating in the lucrative Russian market, the company’s CEO Masamichi Terabatake told the Financial Times. 
We are making various efforts to ensure a sort of a ring-fence, by sending things from Turkey, for example, since there are countries that cannot do trade with Russia,” Terabatake was quoted as saying. 
There are various things we need to be careful of from sanctions — what kind of people can be involved or not in decision-making, excluding people from unfriendly countries for Russia’s management... to putting people unrelated to sanctions in places such as Hong Kong,” he added. But otherwise, it’s business as usual.” 
The changes, which include moving key personnel to Hong Kong and routing some business through Turkey, took around a year to complete, Terabatake said. 
Japan Tobacco, which produces Winston, Camel and domestic Russian brands, originally said it would consider selling its Russian business in response to the war in Ukraine. Instead, the company suspended investment and marketing activities in Russia but decided to keep four factories and more than 4,000 employees at its Russia unit. 
Initial investor scrutiny about Japan Tobacco’s reputation losses for continuing trade in Russia has since receded, according to the CEO. 
Russia, the world’s fourth-largest tobacco market, accounts for one-fifth of Japan Tobacco’s global profits, which totaled $3 billion in 2023, Terabatake told FT. 
Japan Tobacco was among the top earning foreign companies in Russia in 2022, the year when Russian troops invaded Ukraine, but the company’s Russian subsidiary did not pay dividends in 2022 and 2023. 
Hundreds of Western companies have either fully exited or suspended operations in Russia since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion, but Ukrainian researchers estimate that more than 1,300 continue doing business in Russia. 
Japan has joined Western countries in imposing war-related sanctions on Russia but has not reduced its presence in Russian energy projects due to Tokyo’s reliance on Russian liquefied natural gas. 
Journalist Evan Gershkovich Is in Russian Prison for Doing His Job. He Must Be Freed. 
Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich was arrested on March 29, 2023, while on a reporting trip in the Urals city of Yekaterinburg. 
Gershkovich, 32, a U.S. citizen, stands accused of espionage for simply doing his job. If convicted, he faces a maximum prison sentence of 20 years. 
Evan worked at The Moscow Times for nearly three years as a reporter, his first journalism job in Russia. During that time, he worked to cover stories from Russia with balance, fairness and integrity. 
We know Evan is a professional journalist and not a spy. He must be freed immediately. 
Here are some things you can do to support Evan: 
Read and share his reporting: You can find Evan’s past reporting for The Moscow Times here. The Wall Street Journal has removed its paywall for his articles and its coverage of his case. 
Follow his case: The Moscow Times is closely covering the developments in Evan’s legal case and efforts to negotiate his release. You can find this coverage here. 
Write to him: Anyone can write a letter to Evan at FreeGershkovich@gmail.com. It will be translated into Russian, as is required, and mailed to him in prison. 
Spread the word: Posting messages in support of Evan on social media helps keep attention on his case. You can use the hashtags #IStandWithEvan and #FreeEvan. 
Glaciers on Russia's Far East Kamchatka Peninsula have shrunk by over a third since the mid-20th century, the state-run TASS news agency reported, citing Russian scientists’ measurements. 
Known as the "land of fire and ice" because of its active volcanoes and expansive glaciers, Kamchatka is now threatened by climate change, with glacier melt accelerating this century. 
Glaciers on the Sredinny Range — Kamchatka's longest mountain chain — and the Kronotsky Peninsula have lost 36% of their area since 1950, according to researchers from the Institute of Geography of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
The rate of retreat of the ice caps in the northern Sredinny Range from 2002 to 2017 was 4.3 times higher than from 1950 to 2002. 
The researchers also noted a summertime temperature increase of 0.3 degrees Celsius per decade in the northern and northwestern parts of Kamchatka as well as a decrease in winter precipitation, factors that have likely contributed to the glaciers' retreat. 
These areas of the peninsula have experienced higher-than-normal levels of solar radiation from May to September due to decreased cloud cover caused by anticyclones, the scientists said. 
They linked the more frequent anticyclones over Kamchatka to the "expansion of the tropics," a phenomenon in which tropical zones advance toward the Earth's poles due to human-induced climate change. 
Since early April, several Russian regions in the Urals and western Siberia have been battling devastating floods, which experts warn could become more frequent as climate change progresses. 
A resident kangaroo at the Belgorod Zoo in western Russia was killed in an attack on Tuesday, the zoo announced on social media. 
We will never forget you, sweet girl. Grandi, when this living nightmare is over, we will plant the most delicious grape tree in our forest to honor you,” the zoo said in a statement, noting that grapes were the animal’s favorite treat. 
The zoo added that none of its employees — who continue their work despite daily shelling — were injured in the attack. 
Grandi, a Bennett's tree-kangaroo, was transferred to Belgorod from St.Petersburg in 2019 and quickly became a favorite at the zoo given her attachment to humans and love for being hand-fed. 
The Belgorod Zoo said it plans to perform an autopsy to determine whether she was pregnant at the time of her death. 
We hope that there was no one in her pouch,” the zoo said, adding: There are no words to convey the pain, the anger, the powerlessness.” 
I run a small charity based in Ukraine’s Kharkiv region. For a year and a half, we have been working in villages to the north of the region, repairing homes broken by Russian bombs, providing generators and fuel, and funding satellite internet subscriptions. 
Three weeks ago, I was staying in one of these villages, when at four in the morning I was woken up by 20 booms coming from the city, 10 kilometers south. We now know that these explosions destroyed almost all of Kharkiv’s energy infrastructure, leading to ongoing electricity outages throughout the region, including in the villages where I work. 
For the majority of these villages, life without electricity is nothing new. For the first six months of the war, they were all either under occupation, on the front line, or both, with no electricity or mobile signal for the whole time. 
Then, following the liberation of the oblast almost immediately came last year’s energy infrastructure campaign by Russia, in which the entirety of Ukraine was left in darkness for months on end. Since that campaign ended, work has been ongoing to bring power back to these villages. However, March’s major attack on Kharkiv’s energy infrastructure, as well as the subsequent attacks that have been going on throughout April, have brought a further setback. 
The main thing I always want to stress when people ask me what life is like in rural areas without electricity or a phone signal is the resilience of the residents. The morning of March 22, the family I was staying with wasted no time wiring up car batteries to light their living room and power a Wi-Fi router, before going up and down their street collecting their neighbors’ empty water bottles to be driven to the nearest well and filled up, before being redistributed. They lived without for almost six months while their village was on the frontline and endured long blackouts last winter, so have developed a range of methods to cope. Concerted efforts by local administrations since last winter’s attacks mean that many families now have their own generators ready to be powered up whenever they are needed. 
However, the extent of the destruction on March 22, and the subsequent attacks throughout both Kharkiv and the oblast, are stretching these capabilities to the extreme. The petrol stations that once lined the roads from Kharkiv to the border were destroyed early on in the war. In recent weeks, those closer to the city have also come under target. Combined with the poverty the war has brought to the villages, the few extra miles now needed to travel to get fuel make it inaccessible to many people. The cumulative effect of this makes life ever harder for residents trying to fuel their generators, tiring them out day by day, with the aim that they will eventually give up and leave their villages. 
This is why I liken the current Russian campaign against the Kharkiv region to psychological torture. The military gains achieved in these bombings are minimal. Instead, they serve to weaken the morale of an already exhausted people. A new feature of this current onslaught which was not present in last winter’s energy attacks is the coupling of the destruction of energy infrastructure with the intensified bombing of civilian residential areas. 
Villages throughout the oblast, including those that have been peaceful for a year and a half until now, as well as Kharkiv itself, are struck constantly. As well as missiles and drones, Russia has now begun to use gliding bombs, which have added another layer of fear and tension to everyday life. Not having electricity consequently means that these areas also do not have phone signal, meaning you are unable to call and check in on your loved ones in the aftermath of an attack. 
I am in the group chats on Telegram for most villages where I work. A strike was reported earlier this week in one such village which has not had electricity or signal since March 2022. In the hours that followed, villagers who lived elsewhere turned to the chat for answers. Where was the strike? What kind was it? Was anyone hurt? In these situations, answers do not come until later in the day, when a member of the village administration can find some internet somewhere to report official data on the attack. 
As more and more villages are plunged into blackouts, these experiences are becoming increasingly common. On multiple occasions in the last three weeks, I have been unable to reach loved ones in areas that have come under bombardment. Sometimes, these attacks seemed to be timed to take place during the blackouts which have been scheduled to curb energy usage, adding to the feeling that the bombardments are timed for when villagers are cut off from the outside world. You are left sitting in agony for hours, wondering if your loved ones are offline because of a blackout, or because they are trapped under rubble. 
Despite all of this, the residents of these villages show no signs of giving up or fleeing. Some stayed throughout the worst days of the start of the full-scale invasion, and are now hardened to be able to deal with anything that may be thrown at them. Others left their homes already in 2022, only to return after the region was liberated. These people have no intention of leaving again, be that for financial reasons or simply because they simply want to be in their homes. Instead, they will continue to improvise new ways to keep one step ahead of the Russian tactics. Local administrations are also standing firm, with village heads often paying out of pocket for generator fuel when their budgets can’t stretch to cover the costs. 
The region is undeniably bruised and battered, and the exhaustion is palpable in every conversation. But nonetheless, every attack only hardens locals’ resolve. Any suggestion I might make to friends that they evacuate their villages for a while is met with disbelief. Home is home,” the common refrain goes. The main hope now is for advanced air defense systems and F-16 fighter jets to arrive sooner rather than later, and begin to protect the sky over Kharkiv. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday authorized the state-owned telecoms giant Rostelekom to buy out Finnish mobile operator Nokia's stake in a Russian joint venture. 
Under laws introduced in response to Western sanctions, the Kremlin leader must personally approve any deal that involves the exit of a Western company operating in sectors of the economy Moscow considers strategically important. 
In a decree published Wednesday, Putin authorized a subsidiary of Rostelecom — which the government controls through various state development corporations and a state-owned bank — to buy out Nokia's 49% stake in a joint venture called "RTC — Network Technologies." 
Rostelecom and Nokia launched the venture in 2018 to invest in "advanced technologies" related to areas including 5G and the "internet of things," according to a press release published at the time. 
The Finnish company announced in April 2022 that it would leave the Russian market after Moscow launched its full-scale military invasion of Ukraine that February. 
Russia and the West have wrestled over the status of assets held in each other's jurisdictions for the past two years, with Moscow last week announcing tit-for-tat measures that would allow it to confiscate assets held by U.S. companies and individuals in Russia. 
The Russian government has taken a number of Western companies under "temporary" control since the start of the war, a move that some of the companies and Western officials slam as illegal nationalization. 
The West has also targeted Russia's telecommunications networks through sanctions on technology and hardware exports. 
A Russian court sentenced opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Murza to 25 years in prison on charges of treason and fake news” Monday, capping a high-profile trial of one of the country’s most defiant anti-war voices. 
Moscow City Court found Kara-Murza, 41, guilty of treason, false information about the Russian army,” and affiliation with an undesirable organization,” Interfax reported. 
Russia will be free, tell everyone,” Kara-Murza said after the verdict, according to the independent news site Avtozak.info. 
Russia has witnessed a widespread wartime crackdown on dissent, but the severity of Kara-Murza’s sentence marks a new record as the Kremlin seeks to muzzle any criticism of its ongoing invasion of Ukraine. 
The Western-educated politician was detained in April, 2022, on charges of spreading false information about the Russian army” in an address to U.S. state legislators a month earlier. 
Kara-Murza was later accused of being affiliated with an undesirable organization” for participating in a conference in support of political prisoners. His treason charges came in October over anti-war comments made at three public events abroad. 
Prosecutors had requested a prison sentence of 25 years — the maximum possible jail term — for Kara-Murza. 
My self-esteem even went up [on the presecutors' request]. I realized I was doing everything right,” Kara-Murza’s lawyer Maria Eismont recounted her client as saying. 
Twenty-five years is the highest score I could get for what I did, what I believe in as a citizen, as a patriot, as a politician,” Eismont quoted him as saying, adding that he greeted the verdict with a smile.” 
His trial was held behind closed doors. 
Monday’s hearing was attended by several Kara-Murza supporters and foreign diplomats including a U.S. embassy official named David Bernstein, according to the Mediazona news site. 
The Kremlin declined to comment on Kara-Murza’s prison sentence, which his supporters and Western governments slammed as politically motivated. 
U.S. Ambassador Lynne Tracy called Russia’s criminal prosecution of Kremlin critics a symbol of weakness, not strength,” while Canadian Ambassador Alison LeClaire said Kara-Murza’s sentence marked a dark turn” in Russia’s post-Soviet history. 
The British Ambassador in Moscow Deborah Bronnert denounced the court ruling and called for the immediate” release of Kara-Murza, a dual British-Russian citizen. 
The British government expresses solidarity with Vladimir Kara-Murza and his family,” Bronnert told journalists from the steps of the courthouse. 
A Russian citizen by birth, Kara-Murza received British citizenship after moving to the United Kingdom with his mother when he was 15. 
Russia’s Ambassador in London Andrei Kelin was summoned by the U.K. Foreign Office, which condemned Kara-Murza’s sentence as a violation of his right to a fair trial under international law. 
The European Union denounced Kara-Murza’s sentence as outrageously harsh” and called on Russia to provide access to health care for the ailing Kremlin critic. 
The opposition activist suffers from a nerve condition called polyneuropathy which his lawyers say was due to poisoning attempts in 2015 and 2017. 
The condition has worsened in prison, and he was too unwell to attend some of his hearings, his lawyers said. 
Kara-Murza says he was poisoned twice because of his political activities, but he continued to spend long periods of time in Russia. 
Kara-Murza has said he stands by all of his political statements, including those opposing the Ukraine offensive. 
"I subscribe to every word that I have said, that I am incriminated for today," Kara-Murza said in his final address to court last week, highlighting his fight against the Ukraine offensive and President Vladimir Putin. 
"Not only do I not repent for any of it — I am proud of it," he said. 
Germany condemned the shocking level repression” in Russia on Monday, and Latvia announced it had banned 10 Russian nationals from traveling to the Baltic country in retaliation to the court ruling. 
The Russian state played no role in the Wagner mercenary group’s multimillion-dollar business interests in Africa, the Kremlin said Wednesday. 
Spokesman Dmitry Peskov issued the denial after President Vladimir Putin revealed Tuesday that Russia’s state budget fully financed” Wagner, detailing sums of 86 billion rubles ($1 billion) spent on upkeep and another 110 billion rubles ($1.3 billion) on insurance payouts. 
Wagner had an independent business there [in Africa] and the state had nothing to do with this business,” Peskov told reporters. 
Putin talked about quite significant sums of money that were allocated through the Defense Ministry. He mentioned these figures, but the company [Wagner] has been engaged in its own business, which has nothing to do with the state,” he added. 
Wagner founder Yevgeny Prigozhin’s rupture with the Kremlin raises questions about the fate of Wagner’s operations in the Central African Republic, Libya, Mali and Sudan. 
Bloomberg has detailed Wagner’s businesses in CAR ranging from a $290-million-per-year gold mine to precious hardwood processing and beer and vodka production. 
With Wagner, Russia has managed to create a very powerful business machine and tool for influence in Africa,” International Crisis Group’s Central Africa project director Enrica Picco told Bloomberg. 
So the system will not fail even if there are internal struggles in Russia. The Kremlin will not let the system fail — it’s too important for them,” Picco said. 
After Prigozhin’s confirmed exile in Belarus on Tuesday, the United States announced sanctions on Wagner-controlled companies that operate gold and diamond mines in CAR. 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov meanwhile said Russia’s military instructors will continue to operate in CAR and Mali. 
Before being brought out of the shadows during Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine, Wagner operated mostly covertly in global hotspots including Ukraine, Syria and Africa. 
Prigozhin had denied links to Wagner until last year. 
Wagner fighters have been accused of committing mass executions, rape, child abductions and torture in their areas of operation. 
The Kremlin said Wednesday that Moscow's ties with Washington were likely to remain at rock bottom regardless of the results of the U.S. midterm elections, with relations at a historic low over the conflict in Ukraine. 
"These elections won't have any significant impact," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov was quoted as saying by Russian news agencies, adding: "Our existing ties are bad and they will remain bad." 
U.S. President Joe Biden, who has been a key ally to Ukraine and provided weapons and financial backing, could be constrained in his support for Ukraine if Republicans win majorities in the Senate and the House of Representatives. 
Appealing to Americans earlier this week, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky urged the United States to remain "united" until there was peace in Ukraine. 
"I call on you to maintain unwavering unity, as it is now," he said in an address. 
The United States has committed multiple security packages to Ukraine and piled numerous sanctions on Moscow after President Vladimir Putin sent troops into Ukraine in February. 
In the Soviet period food didn’t get much public attention. Like the rest of daily life, it paled in the glow of lofty communist philosophy. But that's strange. It would seem that the topic would be perfect to blot out memories of the glorious” past. After all, food riots in Russia were precursors to the proletarian revolution. 
Through all that, one dish somehow became a symbol of Russian cuisine. It is simple, quick, and can even be made by an inexperienced home cook. But its history is not old at all. And its taste is a legacy of war. 
Macaroni became famous in Russia in the late 18th century thanks to Grigory Potemkin. In Odessa in 1797 he opened the first factory producing this unusual product. To be fair, the word factory” is a bit of a misnomer, because almost everything was done manually. Macaroni was dried in the sun and then moved indoors at night. The first machine for drying spaghetti would be invented in Italy only 15 years later. 
All the same, the new dish became popular even among Muscovites. For example, the owner of the Muranovo estate near Moscow, General Lev Engelhardt, in 1811 gave his cook a written order to buy 3 pounds of macaroni” to celebrate his birthday. Today this handwritten note is preserved in the Lobachevsky Library at Kazan University. 
But how was macaroni prepared then? Probably like in this recipe from the ancient book The Paris Cook, or A Cookbook Containing Everything Related to City Cuisine,” which is in the library of the Muranovo estate near Moscow: 
Boil a pound of macaroni in a good broth with salt, pepper and grated nutmeg. You must not boil the macaroni too long, but to the point where you can squeeze a strand with your fingers. Take the macaroni out and let it drain. Then put the macaroni in a saucepan with a quarter pound of butter, half a pound of chopped cheese, coarsely ground pepper and grated nutmeg. Mix it all well and add a little sour cream.” 
It is clear that this dish is nothing like the familiar dish Marine Macaroni. In general, there is a misconception that Marine Macaroni came to us from Italy. There is one version that Russian sailors in the 19th century were introduced to this tasty dish in their travels to that country. Alas, as is often the case with culinary stories, this is pure fiction. 
Italians typically eat spaghetti with tomato sauce. With a great stretch of imagination you might find an Italian dish similar to Soviet Marine Macaroni: Spaghetti Marinara is pasta with a sauce made of tomatoes, garlic, onions, oregano, capers and olive oil. 
On the other hand, the product itself — fresh or dried pasta — did really came to Russia from Italy. The first experiments with pasta production in Russia were undertaken by Italians about 200 years ago. But a professional factory with drying was opened in Moscow only in 1883. 
Macaroni would seem to be a prime example of mass-produced democratic food: convenient, easy to store, quick to prepare. But there was one problem: Macaroni was expensive. One pound cost from 9 to 14 kopecks, which was about the same price as a pound of meat. Before the 1917 Revolution, macaroni was mostly an elite treat for the well-to-do. The only exception was for naval crews who were served it on voyages even before World War I. 
Sailors were well fed as a reward for their grueling work. They weren’t served simply macaroni, but macaroni with finely chopped, cooked meat. This was a delicacy within a delicacy. 
Sailors on the battleship Gangut” were exhausted after loading tons of coal onto the ship. Suddenly they learned that today they’d just get porridge. But the unwritten law-of-the-sea was that after hard work the crew would be served a tasty meal of macaroni and meat. The sailors revolted, and it took a day to calm them down. 
Was this the first version of Marine Macaroni? Actually — no. In those years the macaroni dish was prepared in a different way. The macaroni was boiled separately and then served with meat that had been spooned out of pots of borscht and chopped up. 
Needless to say, the subsequent revolution and devastation almost erased memory of this dish. Macaroni returned to Soviet kitchens in the mid-1920s, when pasta factories were opened. But no cookbook during this period mentions Marine Macaroni. 
The dish came to the USSR during WWII when macaroni appeared in millions of rations and front-line canteens. And the American second front tinned meat — Spam — became the perfect complement to combat spaghetti.” Apparently this now-classic recipe originated in Murmansk, the capital of the Northern Fleet. 
Dice onions finely and sauté in half of the butter. 
Boil the pasta until cooked, drain, add butter, mix. 
Put the pasta and minced meat in the pan with the sauteed onions. Stir. 
Serve with sour cream. 
The war finally came to an end, but the Soviet people, accustomed over the years to fast and easy simple dishes remember the past warmly even in peace time. After the country finished up Lend-Lease Spam over the course of several more years, they had home-made Soviet canned meat — which was just as popular. Of course, it could be spread on bread. But it tasted better with macaroni! 
This recipe has turned into one of the most popular recipes in the country, both in the home kitchen and in cafeterias. Of course, this is not a refined restaurant dish. On the contrary, it's from everyday life, post-war, when people longed for any kind of feast. 
Marine Macaroni appears in cookbooks is only in the 1960s. That’s when it became an easy fallback meal for both experienced and inexperienced or lazy home cooks as well as for the majority of cafeterias. 
But there is a curious historical analogy with macaroni and revolution. A few years ago, Natalia Sokolova, Minister of Labor in the Saratov administration, proposed that the the cost of the regional consumer basket not be changed. At the time is was 3,500 rubles or 55 dollars. In response, one of the local deputies (back then it was still possible to disagree with the authorities) said that feeding a donkey in the Leningrad zoo costs 10,600 rubles a month, and a ferret — 2,700.” 
It is necessary to eat a balanced diet,” the minister replied. Based on the prices in discount stores. You’ll see that you can live on it — and become younger, more beautiful and slimmer! Macaroni always costs the same!” 
Maybe Putin needed this war to distract people from the fact that macaroni” is no longer affordable. After all, the Russian authorities are afraid of the glorious revolutionary past.” 
Today we make this dish in a slightly new way that is tastier, brighter, and more interesting. 
Revised Marine Mac ‘n' Meat 
Fried meat is much tastier than boiled meat — everyone knows that. Of course, frying results in a crust, which is what gives the meat its more intense flavor and aroma. 
Cut the meat into 2x2 cm (1”x1”) cubes and put it through a meat grinder. 
Dice the onions, mince the garlic and sauté in half of the butter. 
Add minced meat and, breaking up with a spatula; sauté for 10-12 minutes. Salt and pepper to taste. To make the minced meat smoother, when cooking, you can pour 1/3 cup of water and cook until the liquid evaporates. 
Boil the pasta until ready in salted water. 
Drain the water, add the remaining butter to the pasta and stir. 
Add pasta to the pan with fried minced meat. 
Serve with sour cream. You can add a little pressed garlic to the sour cream. Sprinkle with cilantro, dill or parsley. 
Major European banks that continue to do business in Russia paid the government four times more in taxes in 2023 than in the year before Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, the Financial Times reported. 
The seven lenders — Austria’s Raiffeisen, Italy’s UniCredit and Intesa Sanpaolo, the Netherlands’ ING, Germany’s Commerzbank and Deutsche Bank, as well as Hungary’s OTP — reportedly paid around 800 million euros ($857 million) in taxes to the Russian state last year. 
In 2021, those same banks paid 200 million euros in taxes, according to FT. 
At the same time, the seven banks reported a combined profit of more than 3 billion euros last year, though part of these funds cannot be withdrawn from Russia due to wartime restrictions on dividend payouts. It is because of this increase in profitability that the seven banks paid more in Russian taxes in 2023, according to an analysis by FT. 
The amount of taxes paid by the major European banks to the Russian government totals around 0.4% of Russia’s non-energy budget revenues expected in 2024, which highlights the role foreign companies continue to play in propping up Moscow’s financial stability despite Western sanctions and an exodus of foreign companies following the 2022 invasion of Ukraine. 
Western sanctions imposed in response to the war, which cut Russian banks off from the Swift international payment system, have increased the appeal of Western lenders among Russian clients who seek to maintain access to the West — but they have also benefited the banks themselves. 
For example, Raiffeisen Bank International (RBI) saw its Russian profits more than triple to 1.8 billion euros between 2021 and 2023, a figure that is half of RBI’s total profit. Raiffeisen, which has repeatedly said it plans to exit Russia, also paid an additional 47 million euros in 2023 as a windfall tax imposed by the Kremlin on some companies, according to FT. 
FT said its report did not include U.S. banks like Citigroup or JPMorgan as they do not report comparable Russian results on the group accounts used” for its calculations. 
Citigroup paid Russia $53 million in taxes last year, while JPMorgan paid $6.8 million, according to calculations by the Kyiv School of Economics. 
Russian journalist Zhanna Agalakova, who worked for state-run media for over 20 years before quitting over the 2022 invasion of Ukraine, discusses Putin's rise to power and his approach to governance at Maastricht University. 
This lecture is part of a series of lectures organized by The Moscow Times at European universities and given by Russian media professionals. 
LONDON — Marina Litvinenko, activist and widow of poisoned Russian dissident Alexander Litvinenko, told The Moscow Times that Yulia Navalnaya must find her own voice” as she starts to build a political career following her husband’s death. 
Navalnaya announced last week that she would continue the work of her husband Alexei Navalny, the Kremlin’s most prominent foe, after he died in an Arctic prison. 
Yulia will have a lot of advisers going forward, but she will need to follow her own instinct,” Litvinenko, 62, told The Moscow Times in the India and Pakistan Hall of the Royal Overseas League, a London members’ club. 
She has to do what she really believes, not just be an icon.” 
Litvinenko spent a decade campaigning for justice after her husband, a high-profile FSB defector, was killed by a poisoning with radioactive polonium in 2006. Shortly before his death, he accused Putin of being behind his poisoning. 
In 2021, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that Russia was responsible for Litvinenko’s assassination, ordering Moscow to pay his widow 100,000 euros ($108,300) in damages. 
Marina Litvinenko said she sees parallels between herself and Navalnaya on a human level,” but recognizes their circumstances are markedly different. 
I was here in the U.K. [when Alexander Litvinenko was poisoned], so I got the chance for justice. There will not be this chance in Russia while Putin is in power.” 
Litvinenko often makes discreet appearances at both Russian opposition and Ukrainian events in London. Yet she has always been cautious about formally aligning herself with particular factions of the Russian opposition. 
I am not a politician, and my husband was not a politician either. But he was one of the first people to speak out [against Putin],” she said. 
The parallel between myself and Yulia [Navalnaya] is not a hundred percent, but what we see now is a young woman, a widow, telling the world to wake up. I hope that the world is ready to listen.” 
Litvinenko recalled meeting with Navalnaya while visiting Navalny in the Berlin hospital where he was treated after being poisoned with Novichok in 2020. 
Navalny, like Alexander Litvinenko, also blamed Putin for his poisoning. 
I was there too, in Berlin. When Alexei was in a critical condition, I met with Yulia and comforted her. I told her that when Sasha [Litvinenko] was poisoned, I believed until the last minute that he would live.” 
Litvinenko said she tried to contact Navalnaya following Navalny’s death via one of his allies but has not yet received a response. 
When asked whether an opposition of widows” movement could emerge among the spouses of killed Kremlin critics, Litvinenko voiced a desire for Western policymakers to offer strong support to the spouses of Russian political prisoners who are still alive. 
She pointed to Evgenia Kara-Murza, the wife of jailed Russian journalist Vladimir Kara-Murza, who has been lobbying for her husband’s release since he was sentenced to 25 years in Russian prison last year. 
Litvinenko expressed frustration over failed talks between Kara-Murza’s allies and the British Foreign Office to negotiate the release of Kara-Murza, a dual Russian-British citizen whose health has deteriorated in prison. 
I know there was an official request via the U.K. government to trade Vladimir Kara-Murza for some spy, but unfortunately the Foreign Office and [Foreign Secretary] David Cameron said ‘We can’t do this’,” she said. 
When [Russia takes] hostages, they always ask to exchange with a spy, which of course is not equivalent.” 
Last week, a British MP speaking on Cameron’s behalf told The Guardian: We could not and would not countenance a policy of prisoner swap but of course, we continue to make every effort to support Mrs. Kara-Murza and to seek the release of Vladimir.” 
This back-and-forth is playing out against the claim by Navalny’s team that he had been days away from release via a prisoner swap when he died. 
While Litvinenko acknowledged that the Kremlin’s use of high-profile political prisoners as bait” to negotiators is a serious problem, she maintained that the opposition’s priority should be to free Kara-Murza by any means.” 
It is too late to save Alexei Navalny,” she told The Moscow Times, but we may still save Vladimir Kara-Murza.” 
Rapidly melting Arctic permafrost poses the greatest threat to major Russian energy producers’ infrastructure and financial indicators, according to a new Morgan Stanley report obtained by the Vedomosti business daily. 
Gazprom, Novatek, Alrosa and Norilsk Nickel — whose fuel tank leaked after sinking into thawing permafrost in May, resulting in a major environmental disaster — stand to lose the most from the phenomenon that releases carbon gases and further fuels global warming. 
Climate change in permafrost areas, which account for about 60% of Russian territory, leads to the release of large amounts of methane and carbon dioxide, reduces soil stability and creates risks for infrastructure,” Vedomosti quoted Morgan Stanley as saying Thursday. 
The investment banking company noted that average temperatures in Russia have risen at 2.5 times the global rate since 1960 while Arctic temperatures have risen at 3-4 times the global rate since 2000. This heat reduces the bearing capacity of structural foundations in key hydrocarbon production regions by 25-75% compared to 1965. 
Around 90% of Russia’s gas and diamonds, 30% of its oil and all of its palladium reserves are produced in areas covered by a thick layer of permafrost. 
This means that these companies could feel the impact of climate change in the near future, according to Morgan Stanley’s analytical report. 
Gazprom’s forecasted free cash flow for 2022, for example, risks being cut from $8.4 billion to $4 billion, while Nornickel's predicted 2022 dividends could halve to $1.1 billion. 
In Photos: Memorials to Moscow Concert Victims Appear Across Russia 
Mar 25, 2024 - 02:14 pm 
At least 137 people were killed and dozens more were injured Friday night after camouflaged gunmen opened fire at a major concert hall near Moscow and set fire to the building. The attack, which was claimed by the Islamic State jihadist group, has sent shockwaves across Russia and sparked an outpouring of grief across the country. Here's a look at some of the makeshift memorials appearing in cities across Russia: 
Kaliningrad 
A man kneels at a makeshift memorial to the Crocus City Hall victims near Kaliningrad City Hall. 
Vitaly Nevar / TASS 
Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk 
A memorial event in Glory Square in the Far East city of Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk in tribute to the victims of the Crocus City Hall attack. 
Nikolai Mikhalchenko / TASS 
St. Petersburg 
Women visit a memorial on the Strelka of Vasilievsky Island in St. Petersburg in memory of the victims. 
Peter Kovalev / TASS 
Kazan 
A woman lays flowers at a makeshift memorial in Kazan, republic of Tatarstan. 
Yegor Aleyev / TASS 
Norilsk 
A makeshift memorial for the victims of the Crocus City Hall attack in Norilsk, a city in Russia's Arctic. 
Denis Kozhevnikov / TASS 
Yekaterinburg 
A woman lays flowers at a makeshift memorial in Yekaterinburg, Russia's fourth-largest city. 
Yaroslavl 
A makeshift memorial for the victims of the Crocus City Hall attack in Yaroslavl. 
Svetlana Sergeyeva / TASS 
Vladivostok 
A man in Vladivostok lays flowers in memory of those killed in Moscow. 
Yuri Smityuk / TASS 
Stavropol 
A makeshift memorial in Stavropol, southern Russia. 
Novy Urengoy 
A makeshift memorial in Novy Urengoy, Yamal-Nenets autonomous district. 
Andrei Maltsev / TASS 
Krasnogorsk 
People stand in line to lay flowers in memory of the victims of the attack outside Crocus City Hall near Moscow. 
Sergei Vedyashkin / Moskva News Agency 
Krasnogorsk 
Flowers, candles and toys in memory of the victims at Crocus City Hall. 
Moskva News Agency 
Krasnogorsk 
A projection of flying cranes on the Crocus City Hall building in memory of the victims. 
German carmaker Mercedes-Benz is expected to sell its Russian assets to a local investor, the Russian Industry and Trade Ministry said Wednesday, becoming the latest automaker to exit since Moscow sent troops to Ukraine. 
"Mercedes-Benz intends to sell its shares in Russian subsidiaries to a local investor," Avtodom, the ministry said in a Telegram statement. 
"The new owner of the Russian divisions of Mercedes-Benz, Avtodom, will be able to attract other companies as partners for joint productions," the ministry added. 
Mercedes-Benz confirmed it intended to sell in a separate statement. 
"The fulfillment of obligations to customers in Russia... as well as the preservation of jobs for employees of the Russian divisions of the company" were the priority in concluding the deal with Avtodom, general director of Mercedes-Benz-RUS Natalya Koroleva said. 
"The completion of the transaction is subject to the approval of all relevant authorities," Mercedes-Benz said in the statement. 
Many Western companies left Russia for ethical or logistical reasons since Moscow launched what it calls a "special military operation" in Ukraine on Feb. 24. 
No financial details of the transaction were provided by either side on Wednesday. 
Western sanctions imposed on Russia since the beginning of the Ukraine offensive have heavily disrupted supply chains. 
The technology and car manufacturing sectors were particularly affected. 
Russia's economy grew 5.4% in the first quarter of 2024, official statistics published Friday showed, as President Vladimir Putin denied military spending on his Ukraine offensive was reaching unsustainable levels. 
The Kremlin has heavily militarized Russia's economy since sending troops into Ukraine in February 2022, with the vast outlays helping to power growth and cushion the blow of Western sanctions. 
But it has also set off inflation and comparisons with runaway defense spending that hobbled the Soviet Union in the 1980s. 
The Rosstat statistics agency said the first quarter growth was up from 4.9% in the fourth quarter of last year. 
The inflation rate also picked up over the month, however, to 7.8%. 
On a state visit to China, Putin denied that Russia's vast military spending — which he said had passed 8% of GDP — had hit unsustainable levels. 
"It is not critical yet. In the Soviet Union in 1985-1986, defense spending was 13%" of GDP, he said. 
"Taking into account the state of the economy, macroeconomic indicators and budget revenue forecasts, combined defense and security spending of eight-and-a-bit percent is not critical," he added. 
Earlier in the week, Putin had said Russia's military spending was a "great resource" that should be used "carefully and effectively." 
He said Friday that experts believe Russia's state finances still have room to accommodate even higher expenditure. 
Russian troops last week launched a major new offensive on Ukraine's northeastern Kharkiv region. Putin has signaled he sees Moscow's path to victory on the battlefield by outspending Ukraine and its Western backers. 
Inflation problems 
The reorientation of Russia's crucial energy exports to the likes of China and India has helped it weather Western sanctions that many analysts predicted would push Russia into a deep recession. 
China has become Russia's most important economic ally over the last two years. 
Putin on Friday blasted U.S. attempts to put pressure on Beijing over its ties with Moscow. 
He called U.S. threats of sanctions on Chinese banks and companies that deal with Russia "illegitimate" and said lenders in both countries were working to overcome problems with cross-border payments. 
The United States has targeted companies in third countries, including China, that it says are helping Russia purchase sanctioned goods for its military. 
While helping to secure strong headline growth, Russia's increased military spending has caused some economic difficulties at home. 
Inflation climbed from 7.7% to 7.8% in April, Rosstat said on Friday — ahead of analysts' expectations and further from the government's official 4.0% target. 
The Central Bank has hiked its key interest rate to 16% in a bid to combat rising prices. 
And parts of the economy not supported by the offensive — such as the services and IT sectors — are seeing record labor shortages. Many young men have been drafted, left the country or recruited by the booming weapons industry. 
Authorities in Russia’s Kurgan and Tyumen regions have urged residents to flee as the nearby Tobol and Ishim rivers swelled to dangerous levels. 
Officials previously forecast that the Ishim and Tobol rivers would reach peak levels around April 23-25. But the Kremlin said flood water levels were now expected to increase in the Kurgan and Tyumen regions by mid-week as the rivers approached or exceeded eight meters on Tuesday. 
Dear residents of the region, if you live in the flood zone, evacuate immediately,” the Kurgan regional government said in a statement posted on the Russian social network Vkontakte. 
Kurgan region Governor Vadim Shumkov warned Monday that a colossal” amount of river water was rapidly flowing toward the regional capital, which has a population of over 300,000 people. 
This isn’t just a flood, it’s a real threat,” Shumkov said. Take your children, the elderly, handicapped relatives and neighbors to temporary shelters or to friends and acquaintances. Collect personal documents and valuables. Evacuate or bring your belongings to the top floors and leave your homes and dachas immediately.” 
In the neighboring Tyumen region, Governor Alexander Moor told Russian state television that eight villages were evacuated due to the rising Tobol River and warned the Ishim River was rising very dynamically.” 
He said that water levels in the river were expected to reach historic maximum,” adding that authorities were considering whether to implement mandatory evacuations. 
In a video released late Sunday, Moor warned the river will flow intensely” as its ice cover melts, threatening the city of Ishim, which has a population of some 65,000 people. The Tyumen regional government said Tuesday that emergency alerts had been sent to residents via text message urging them to flee the city. 
Since early April, Russia and neighboring Kazakhstan have been battling devastating floods that have forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of people. Scores of cities and towns were completely or partially flooded last week in the southern Orenburg region as the Ural River swelled. 
Spring flooding caused by melting ice is a regular occurrence in some parts of Russia, but this year’s heavy rainfall, combined with unusually warm spring weather, has led to severe flooding in Russia’s Urals and western Siberia. 
Russia has accused Germany of Russophobic hysteria” on Wednesday as tensions between the two countries run high over Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine. 
In a statement marking the anniversary of Nazi Germany’s invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, the Russian Foreign Ministry accused Berlin of jeopardizing the two countries' ties that were rebuilt in the decades following World War II. 
The German authorities have recently been taking more and more actions that threaten to undermine the process of historical reconciliation between Russians and Germans after the Great Patriotic War,” the ministry statement said, using the Russian term for World War II. 
The ministry also accused Germany of carrying out a propaganda campaign aimed at fomenting "unmotivated aggression bordering on mass psychosis" toward Russia. 
Russophobic hysteria is systematically fueled by almost daily public attacks against our country by members of the German government,” the statement continued. 
Already tense over the poisoning of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny and Russia's annexation of Crimea, relations between Berlin and Moscow have continued to sour since the Kremlin sent troops into pro-Western Ukraine on Feb. 24. 
Since the invasion began, Germany has moved to shed the caution it has maintained since the end of World War II, sending lethal weaponry to Kyiv and imposing sanctions on Russia. 
Berlin also abandoned Nord Stream 2, a controversial Baltic Sea gas pipeline running between Russia and Germany, following the start of the invasion. 
Last week German Chancellor Olaf Scholz, alongside Frence President Emmanuel Macron and Italian Prime Minister Mario Draghi, met with Ukrainian president Volodomyr Zelensky in Kyiv, in a historic trip that saw the leaders visit towns devastated by the ongoing war. 
Moscow has repeatedly attempted to draw parallels between the Soviet Union’s victory over Nazi Germany and its current military campaign in Ukraine, which the Kremlin says is an effort to demilitarize and denazify” Ukraine. 
It has also expressed fury at Western countries for supplying weapons and other military aid to Kyiv. 
News footage with German weapons and army equipment supplied to the Kyiv regime as part of the special military operation in Ukraine is extremely negatively perceived, according to officials in Berlin who claim ‘victory over Moscow on the battlefield’,” the Foreign Ministry’s latest statement wrote. 
A sampling of the capital's cultural offerings in the new year. 
The year 2020 was not a good year for the arts. In Russia, as elsewhere, it was a year of closures, cancellations, postponements, broken contracts, checkerboard seating, air scrubbing equipment, performers and personnel with Covid, self-isolation regimes, and catastrophic loss of both lives and income. 
Planning was often useless. As Yelena Kovalskaya, director of the Meyerhold Center in Moscow told The Moscow Times, In July we didn’t know what the requirements from the Mayor’s Office and the Consumer protection service would be for September, and in September we didn’t know what the situation would be in December.” 
2021 is starting with much of the same uncertainty. But there is hope that current measures and vaccines will lead to a return to normality by the end of the year, and a combination of new skills and innovation will make this a richer year in the arts than anyone could have expected nine months ago. 
For better or worse 
Museum work is done according to a plan," Tatiana Utkevich, scientific secretary of the State Tretyakov Gallery, told The Moscow Times. "You need to have a clear sense of what needs to be done and when. All exhibitions and major projects have an entire educational program that must be designed well in advance.” 
In normal years, large state museums schedule major exhibitions for up to five years in advance. Smaller exhibitions require at least a year or two of preparation. In a museum like the State Tretyakov Gallery, which has myriad exhibition spaces, this involves planning for dozens of shows simultaneously. 
Every year the State Pushkin Museum of Fine Arts holds about 10 exhibition projects with works from other museums, libraries, and private collections. This is about a third of their yearly exhibitions. 
The pandemic made coordinating with partners in Russian regions, which work under different restrictions than Moscow, and abroad sometimes impossible. As Utkevich said, their foreign partners are all closed, too. Their countries have their own Covid restrictions that often don’t coincide with ours. When we’re ready, they aren’t, or the other way around…” 
In the performing arts, major theaters plan their schedule for up to two seasons in advance and contract with star performers up to three years in advance. Smaller institutions set their schedules for at least six months in the future. In 2020, schedules broke down instantly. "In the pandemic, [foreign performers] either couldn’t come here or were afraid to,” Vladimir Urin, director of the Bolshoi Theater said. 
Another problem has been the ban on in-house work for performers, musicians, directors and other personnel older than 65. In some cases, new performers had to be prepared for roles. At the Romen Gypsy Theater where older singers and dancers are the headliners in several productions, theater director Natalya Romantsova told The Moscow Times that they simply had to cancel their most popular shows. 
The rule to keep the audience at 25% capacity has forced the Meyerhold Center to drop 12 shows entirely because the small audience revenues won't even cover basic expenses for opening the theater. Subscription events are yet another problem. People purchased subscriptions in the fall of 2019 for the 2019-2020 season. In some cases, the concert halls cancelled the events and returned the money to the subscribers. In other cases, halls try to reschedule. For example, the Tchaikovsky Hall announced that a subscription concert planned for Jan. 8 had been moved to a date in September — presumably far enough into a restriction-free future. 
And finally, there is the constant problem of performers or other key personnel falling ill. Satyriсon Theater Director Vladimir Kazachenko told The Moscow Times, Actors regularly take Covid tests, there are machines to recirculate the air in all the production and rehearsal rooms. Before the shows we check the temperature of the audience members before allowing them in, ensure that they keep their masks on, seat only 25 % of the hall, and see that all the theater personnel wear masks and gloves. We also sent a third of our personnel to work from home.” 
But despite all this, they had to cancel three performances due to performers falling ill. The only consolation is that this appears to be a better record than many other theaters in the capital. 
At present, in Moscow arts institutions are operating under virtually the same set of restraints that ruled them in 2020. All the same, they have big plans for 2021 — and a set of quickly learned skills and innovative programming. 
Reaping the cultural harvest planted in 2020 
In many museums, exhibitions are being extended and others moved up months or even years. The State Tretyakov Gallery is celebrating the reopening of museums on Jan. 16 with three new shows: Robert Falk, Alla Urban and Alexander Benois and the World of Art. The State Pushkin Museum has dozens of shows planned and almost ready to go, starting with a big show of works by the video artist Bill Viola set to open in March. The museum is continuing its celebration of collectors with a show of works gathered by the Morozov brothers planned to open in October. 
The Garage Museum of Contemporary Art is keeping up several shows, including their Second Triennial of Russian Contemporary Art (now set to run until Feb. 28) and will open several new shows in March. One, called Present Continuous, was inspired by the unrealized projects of the past year. It will exhibit projects that were never made, such as a dance hall designed by architect Igor Pyatkin for Gorky Park; Francisco Infante-Arana’s light and sound project for Red Square; and a collection of project ideas by women artists in an unpublished catalog of the Museum of Desire. 
The AZ Museum was ready to open its month-long holiday exhibition, Glad Tidings, of works by Tatyana Chernova in December just as museums were ordered to close. It will stay up for several more weeks after museums reopen on Jan. 15. The museum also plans two major shows this year using works from their own collection, including a celebration of the 90th anniversary of artist Anatoly Zverev’s birthday. 
The Museum of Russian Impressionism has been able to extend their ground-breaking show of works by Sergei Vinogradov until March 31. 
Every museum, theater, concert hall and exhibition space has spent the year ramping up their online presence, producing online projects, videos, podcasts, zoom master classes, conferences, films, and other events. In many cases, this has widened their audience exponentially. The rather small Romen Gypsy Theater reached more than 50,000 people when their celebration of International Roma Day went online. The Museum of Moscow, which opened an exhibition called VKHUTEMAS 100. School of the Avant-Garde just before the museum closures, has put up an enormous online program here and uploaded a half-dozen films on their Youtube channel here to keep art lovers happy until they can visit the exhibition in person. 
On stage, audiences will reap the pleasures of postponed premieres. At the Bolshoi Theater, director Vladimir Urin said they were compelled to correct the schedule and almost all the premieres that had been scheduled for the first half of the season [in 2020] have been moved to this year. So, in 2021 there will be a premiere every month.” 
In January Georges Bizet’s Les pêcheurs de perles” will premiere on the Boris Pokrovsky Chamber Stage and in February — Richard Strauss’ Salome” with a libretto by Hedwig Lachmann based on the play by Oscar Wilde and Four Characters in Search of a plot,” a program of one-act ballets, will be performed on the historic stage. 
The previous year has also caused some re-evaluation. Online programs and projects are likely to become a standard, growing part of all cultural institutions. The Meyerhold Center, a state-supported space that hosts private theater troupes, is casting their eyes far outside the capital. We are in favor of decentralization,” director Yelena Kovalskaya said, especially of private theaters, which are mostly found in the capital cities today. In the fall we’re launching a caravan of independent theaters to tour the country.” 
In general,” she added, we’re thinking about the future without any fear.” 
Russia’s human rights commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova has blamed the authorities in Kyiv for roadblocking efforts to secure the further release of prisoners of war, the state-run Interfax news agency reported Wednesday. 
Unfortunately, exchanges have been suspended for several months due to Ukraine constantly making new and far-fetched demands,” Moskalkova was quoted as saying by Interfax during a parliamentary committee hearing. 
She did not specify what demands Ukraine was said to have been making. There was no immediate comment from the Ukrainian authorities about Moskalkova’s accusations. 
Moscow and Kyiv last exchanged 200 prisoners of war in early February, marking the 51st time the two warring sides swapped imprisoned servicemen since the start of the full-scale invasion, according to Ukraine’s estimates. 
Kyiv says that more than 3,000 Ukrainian prisoners of war have been returned so far, while Russian authorities have reported a similar number as both countries follow a one-to-one exchange formula. 
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu claimed Friday that Ukraine’s military losses topped 111,000 people since the start of 2024, as Russian forces continued advancing along the eastern front line amid delays in critical Western aid for Kyiv. 
Russian troops continue breaking the enemy’s system of strongholds along the entire line of contact,” Shoigu said at a meeting with the army’s top brass. 
He accused Washington of pressuring Kyiv to prevent the collapse of its defenses and hold back the advance of Russian troops at all costs,” which he said has led to Ukraine’s military casualties. 
In total, they exceed 111,000 people,” Shoigu said, adding that the Ukrainian military was losing up to 1,000 servicemen every day in April. 
It was not immediately possible to verify his claims and the Russian military has not provided updates on its own death toll since September 2022. 
Shoigu added that Russian forces had captured 547 square kilometers of Ukrainian territory so far this year, up from the 403 square kilometers figure he named in April. 
Russia’s Defense Ministry in recent weeks has announced the capture of several settlements around the town of Avdiivka, which Russian forces seized after heavy fighting in February. 
Those advances came as a $60 billion military aid package for Ukraine was held up for months in the U.S. Congress due to opposition from Republicans, while deliveries of artillery shells from European countries were also delayed. 
Russian forces are rushing to claim as much Ukrainian territory as possible ahead of the arrival of U.S. weapons and equipment to Kyiv's forces after the long-awaited military aid package was finally passed in Congress and signed by U.S. President Joe Biden. 
The U.S.-based think tank Institute for the Study of War estimates Russia controls more than 100,000 square kilometers — or almost a fifth — of Ukrainian territory. 
A Moscow library has ousted its resident cat after a patron wrote a letter of denunciation against him, media reported Monday. 
Markiz, a black-and-white cat with long hair, had been living at the library in northwestern Moscow’s Strogino district for eight years. 
He was sent to live in a foster home after pensioner Igor Pochkin, a longtime library visitor, wrote a letter to the library’s management complaining that the cat’s presence created a dangerous epidemiological environment.” 
Pochkin has been coming [to the library] with his laptop every day for eight years,” the Ostorozhno Moskva Telegram channel cited library employees as saying. 
[He is] very confrontational towards everyone, even kids are afraid of him. [He is] constantly arguing,” they added, noting that Pochkin has filed complaints against the library’s employees in the past. 
Librarians who took care of Markiz said they were forced to part with the cat despite the animal having all necessary medical documents and being up-to-date on his vaccinations. 
The head of the State Duma’s Environmental Committee Vladimir Burmatov also spoke out in Markiz’s defense, noting that there are no rules against keeping cats in libraries.” 
There are examples when they even live in public dining establishments and [consumer watchdog] Rospotrebnadzor does not find any irregularities,” the news.ru news website quoted Burmatov as saying. 
More than 150 library visitors have already signed a petition calling for the animal’s return, according to Ostorozhno Moskva. 
Earlier this month, Russian social media was plunged into an uproar after a pet cat named Twix was thrown from a train and died in freezing conditions. 
The head of Russia’s Investigative Committee subsequently ordered an investigation into the incident. 
Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said Sunday that Russian air defense had destroyed a drone nearing the capital, which had been rarely targeted throughout the conflict in Ukraine until several attacks this year. 
"Today at around 11 am a drone attempted to make a breakthrough toward Moscow. It was destroyed while approaching by air defense forces," Sobyanin said on Telegram. 
The Russian Defense Ministry said the Ukrainian drone was destroyed over the Podolsky district in the Moscow region. 
"There were no casualties or damage," the ministry said. 
Temporary restrictions that had been introduced at Moscow's Vnukovo international airport were lifted, Russian-state run news agency RIA Novosti said. 
This week drones targeted Moscow, damaging an office block as the capital's main business district was struck twice in a few days. 
The Kremlin said on Monday that "all possible measures have been taken to defend civil infrastructure" against Ukrainian strikes. 
Moscow is ready to give Kyiv the bodies of Ukrainian prisoners of war who were said to have died in a military plane crash last month, Russia’s presidential human rights commissioner Tatiana Moskalkova said Friday. 
Russia claims 65 Ukrainian servicemen en route for a scheduled prisoner exchange were killed on Jan. 24 when a missile fired from northeastern Ukraine struck an Il-76 military transport plane. 
The bodies can be handed over according to existing procedures,” Moskalkova told the state-run news agency RIA Novosti. 
Everything needed in terms of the procedure is in place,” she added, claiming that Kyiv had expressed interest in retrieving the bodies. 
Moskalkova’s Ukrainian counterpart, Dmytro Lubinets, accused her of speculating” on the downing incident without allowing access to the cash site. 
So far, at my request, Russia has not handed over any official [passenger] lists, confirmed the fact or granted international organizations access to the site of the tragedy,” Lubinets wrote on the messaging app Telegram. 
The Kremlin has previously denied receiving Kyiv’s requests for the soldiers’ bodies, while Ukrainian authorities, in their turn, denied that any prisoners of war were on board the downed Il-76. 
Russia’s Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes, has said that genetic tests of nearly 700 body fragments recovered from the crash site had undeniably” confirmed the 65 soldiers’ identities. 
Moscow accuses Kyiv of using a U.S.-made Patriot surface-to-air missile system to shoot down the aircraft over western Russia’s Belgorod region. 
Kyiv has neither confirmed nor denied its involvement, though it did say a prisoner exchange had been planned for the same day as the Il-76 crash. 
Russia and Ukraine have both opened criminal investigations into the tragedy. 
A court in Russia’s Chelyabinsk region has ruled to hand over the assets of pasta manufacturer Makfa Group to the Russian state, the business news website RBC reported Wednesday. 
Makfa’s seizure is the latest in what has been described as the Kremlin’s creeping drive of forced nationalizations since the February 2022 invasion of Ukraine, which saw scores of foreign companies leave the country in response. 
Chelyabinsk’s Central District Court granted a request from the Russian Prosecutor General’s Office to seize the pasta maker on accusations that its owners had broken anti-corruption laws by running the business while holding political office. 
Makfa’s main beneficiaries are the former Chelyabinsk regional Governor Mikhail Yurevich, who is a suspect in a bribery case, and former regional lawmaker Vadim Belousov, who was convicted on the same charges in 2022. 
Yurevich and Belousov are believed to be living abroad while Makfa, which the business partners built together in the 1990s and 2000s, continues operating as one of Russia’s most recognized pasta brands. In 2023, Makfa Group reported a yearly revenue of 23.7 billion rubles ($257.26 million). 
According to RBC, the defendants had sought unsuccessfully to avoid a closed-door hearing by transferring the case to an arbitration court. They had also offered to buy back the company and spend 1 billion rubles ($12 million) a year on Russia’s war in Ukraine as part of a settlement deal. 
Makfa completely disagrees with the decision and intends to appeal it in the near future,” the company’s lawyer Pavel Khlyustov told RBC, adding that he sees grounds” to challenge the verdict with Russia’s Constitutional Court. 
After Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of neighboring Ukraine, Russian authorities have sought to nationalize key assets in the country’s defense industry in a bid to command greater control over ramped-up military production. However, the sweep in asset seizures has increasingly targeted the civilian economy. 
In March, the government took control of the country’s largest winemaker linked to an arrested billionaire whose business assets were confiscated earlier this year. 
President Vladimir Putin has denied that Russia is witnessing concerted efforts to re-nationalize key parts of the economy. 
Thirty-eight years after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster, careless urban development risks unleashing yet another radioactive hazard beneath Muscovites’ feet. 
Nearly four decades ago today, the Soviet Union witnessed the worst nuclear disaster in history when the fourth reactor at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine exploded. 
In the present-day Russian capital, another potential radioactive threat lies dormant beneath Muscovites’ feet. 
In Moscow’s northwestern Shchukino district, city authorities are planning new developments atop underground pipes carrying liquid radioactive waste, with plans to erect business and residential buildings, a school and a kindergarten. 
Locals and experts say these extensive construction works could damage the pipes, potentially spilling this radioactive waste into the environment. 
Inside the old pipes, there are centimeter-thick deposits of radioactive salts. There's a huge cocktail there, with many different radionuclides present,” said Andrei Ozharovsky, a nuclear physicist and antinuclear campaigner. 
In the event of damage to a functioning pipe ... it could lead to the simple spillage of its contents, resulting in local contamination,” Ozharovsky told the Moscow Times. 
If the project goes forward, it will entail demolishing a garage complex on Shchukino’s Rogova Ulitsa — further angering residents with cars from over 1,400 garages congesting the already crowded local courtyards. 
Covered threat 
Moscow’s Shchukino district is home to several scientific institutions. The district was the cradle of Russia’s nuclear industry in the 1940s and instrumental in the creation of the first Soviet atomic bomb. 
Among them are the Kurchatov Institute and the Bochvar Institute of Inorganic Materials, both involved in nuclear science to this day. For decades, their research has generated nuclear waste, transported via underground pipes to Moscow’s liquid radioactive waste processing plant in the same district. 
Due to the secrecy surrounding this nuclear cluster, with information often classified during correspondence with authorities, the exact volume of radioactive materials involved and the scale of a hypothetical accident remain unclear, Ozharovsky said. 
Experts familiar with nuclear research offered their best guesses. 
As someone with a specialized education, I can say that enterprises like radiochemical experimental workshops at the Bochvar Institute, as well as nuclear reactors and other facilities at the Kurchatov Institute, cannot operate without generating radioactive waste, primarily liquid waste,” Ozharovsky said. 
According to Ozharovsky, the worst-case scenario would see radioactive substances leak from damaged pipes into the ground in liquid form, eventually finding their way into streams feeding the Moskva River, Moscow’s main waterway. 
They [spilled substances] will disperse, creating a zone of radioactive contamination that will need to be fenced off,” he said. No construction can take place within this area, and it will be very expensive to clean up since radioactive substances tend to disperse quite easily but are very difficult to collect back — we know this from Chernobyl and other accidents.” 
Vladimir Mordashov, a leading expert at the Kurchatov Institute, where he has worked since 1955, voiced similar concerns this month. 
The soil beneath the [garage] cooperative is essentially a graveyard of long-lived radioactive waste,” Mordashov said during a roundtable discussion on the issue at the Moscow City Duma that included concerned deputies, experts and locals. 
The radiation levels there are [so high] that it's not safe to build anything there. The only option for this area is to fill the entire cooperative with soil and plant vegetation," he said. 
Besides directly affecting the pipes, the operation of heavy construction machinery could also set off ground movement. According to Moscow’s general city plan, the site sits on unstable land prone to dangerous geological events. 
At the roundtable, several Shchukino residents also spoke out against the development plans and urged authorities to halt the project. 
In general, all the people we talked to on the street ... were unanimous that we need to preserve this [garage] complex. We don't need any specific development there; our area is already oversaturated with both cars and residential buildings,” said Alexander, who lives close to the site. 
Local resident Galina said that officials have systematically ignored residents' calls despite their numerous attempts to knock on all doors. 
The residents, who are not very familiar with legislative activities, write their letters from the heart. And I believe that the Moscow government is simply, one might say, taunting the residents who protest, who send out cries from their soul, but only receive bureaucratic replies,” she said. 
A petition against construction has garnered 1,200 signatures so far. 
Powerful interests 
Throughout Mayor Sergei Sobyanin’s tenure, the Russian capital has poured money into construction projects, drawing criticism for corruption-prone schemes that disregard the opinions of locals. 
Public discontent regularly flares over various development plans, often those involving the clearance of green spaces. In 2019, residents also protested the construction of a highway that they warned could unleash buried radioactive materials from the nearby nuclear waste site. 
At a first glance, the conflict in Shchukino is hardly unusual in this regard. 
State Duma deputy Denis Parfenov, who has met with hundreds of residents opposing the project on Rogova Ulitsa, claimed that the Moscow government puts the construction industry’s agenda before locals’ concerns. 
We see widespread lobbying efforts aimed at designating various areas of Moscow for urban development, the vast majority of which boil down to … generating high profits for those carrying out this development," Parfenov said during an April roundtable at the Moscow City Duma. 
However, this time, the developers’ interests collide with those of state nuclear energy corporation Rosatom in addition to those of Moscow residents worried for their health and the environment. 
Careless activities near the pipes could directly impact Rosatom’s institutions, which would prefer the functioning of the pipes and proper disposal of the hazardous waste they carry to continue undisturbed. 
According to Dmitry Grinchik, a representative of Rosatom’s Bochvar Institute, which manages the pipes, regular monitoring shows normal radiation levels at the site. 
"We [at Rosatom] understand the priority of safety,” Grinchik said this month. In the case of uncoordinated actions, these works [construction atop the pipes] may affect our site [the pipes].” 
The Bochvar Institute also confirmed the threat in an official letter to the Moscow government last year, warning about the special drainage” under the garages on Rogova Ulitsa and the sanitary protection zone established around it. 
Russian legislation prohibits the construction of residential and public buildings, including schools and kindergartens, within a sanitary protection zone. 
Yet a year later, city authorities do not appear keen for dialogue, having notably been absent from the recent Moscow City Duma meeting. 
The Moscow government did not respond to The Moscow Times’ request for comment. 
Ozharovsky warned that sweeping the issue under the rug would risk potential accidents. 
He also urged the nuclear enterprise cluster in Shchukino to declassify information about the pipes and visibly mark the sanitary protection zone to prevent any future construction there. 
"There is radioactive waste here, after all,” he said. 
This could indeed lead to serious problems, both now and in the future." 
— China has complained that Moscow’s response to coronavirus is discriminatory and risks damaging relations with Beijing. Associated Press correspondents Francesca Ebel and Dasha Litvinova looked at how Moscow authorities went into great lengths to track down Chinese nationals. Francesca joins us to explain Russia’s increasingly heavy-handed measures to contain the outbreak. 
— The battle for the Arctic is heating up — literally — as countries, companies and citizens wrangle to protect and advance their interests in the region. We’ll speak to American journalist Alec Luhn about the effects of climate change on the Arctic, and Russia’s political and economic strategy for its icy north. 
From Russia With News is hosted by Jake Cordell and produced by Pjotr Sauer. The episode was recorded and edited at CM Records Studio in central Moscow. 
It’s "strange bedfellows week" on Moscow television, as the small screen offers its audience great literature (live!), regrettable war criminals (dead!) and a longtime Russian rock star whose early work during perestroika will impress you – as it did the New York Times. Here’s the where and when: 
In Russia a poet is more than a poet, as the late Yevgeny Yevtushenko famously observed, and on MONDAY and TUESDAY viewers get an encouraging object lesson in how true that still is: the Kultura channel takes reader-viewers to the symbolic heart of Russia to report live, four times each day, from the Red Square Book Festival.” 
The entire expanse between the History Museum and St. Basil’s will be chock-a-block with books, around which will be staged meetings with authors, book presentations, master classes and discussions on writing, theatrical presentations and concerts, literary quizzes and interactive games, and a good deal more” – all in honor of June 6, the birthday of the original more-than-a-poet, Alexander Pushkin (aka наше всё”/our everything”), which is also celebrated as the Day of the Russian Language. Tune in Kultura’s special reports” to follow the literary action in all its enlightening, amusing and diverting forms – and yes, home in on a tome or two for your summer reading list. 
It’s a good thing indeed that TV can spend several days reminding us that reading is fundamental – and no less important that the small screen dedicates much of the rest of this week to reminding viewers, directly and indirectly, of another useful maxim: that those who ignore history are condemned to repeat it. The Zvezda channel leads by offering the Oleg Shtrom documentary "Nuremburg" (2016) in four parts MONDAY through THURSDAY evenings: The Trial That Might Not Have Been”; The Trial Through the Eyes of Journalists”: The Banality of Evil”: and Blood Money: Judging the Manufacturers.” 
For anyone who doubts the continued importance in Russia of recalling the entirety of World War II, from its onset in 1939 to the postwar adjudication by the victors at Nuremburg, the troubling trends in local historiography surely demonstrate why documentaries like this one matter: Less than a year ago Russia’s Supreme Court upheld the conviction of a blogger in Perm for reposting a factual statement about the beginning of the war that the court somehow deemed a public denial of the Nuremberg trials.” This was a decision widely described as absurd on the face of it, but one that doubtless succeeded in sending a chilling message to Russian social media users as to who is in charge of history here. 
If the serialized Shtrom feature is not on a level with Christian Delage’s 2006 classic Nuremberg: The Nazis Facing Their Crimes” (Нюрнберг. Нацисты перед лицом своих преступлений) – which Kultura, commendably, has aired several times in recent years – it is in any case an important and timely contribution to the literature on the subject. 
Nuremburg / Нюрнберг. Zvezda, Monday through Thursday at 6:40 p.m. 
Late TUESDAY night the Who’s Who (Кто есть кто) channel puts the question another way: if the Zvyagintsev documentary explains why one Nuremburg tribunal was necessary, Igor Kholodkov’s The Nuremburg That Wasn’t” (2009) explains why another was not – specifically, why the mass crimes against humanity committed in Russia during the Soviet period were not brought before some august body to be publicly judged and forcefully condemned once and forever. 
And this might have happened, it seems. As the channel’s program summary puts it, There was a time when ‘a Russian Nuremberg’ could have taken place, initiated by [Gulag veteran] Olga Shatunovskaya and a group of ex-prisoners who had considerable influence on [post-Stalin premier Nikita] Khrushchev. Some 64 volumes of terrifying documentation incriminating Stalin and his executioners were collected. But these executioners…were able to persuade Khrushchev to postpone publication of the materials for two years – which proved time enough to force his resignation and destroy almost all the documents.” 
The documentary’s text is by Irina Vasileva, author of the moving 2005 documentary Beslan: City of Angels” (Беслан – город ангелов”); much of the background and on-point commentary comes from interviews with Grigory Pomerantz, the philosopher/critic (and Gulag survivor) who became an important human rights leader here in the 1960s and 70s and wrote on the Shatunovskaya initiative. Tune in for a saddening but enlightening account of history-that-might-have-been – which you are not likely to see recounted any time soon on the central state channels. 
The Nuremburg That Wasn’t / Hюрнберг, которого не было. Кто есть кто, Wednesday at 00:45 a.m. 
Late WEDNESDAY night the Viasat History channel likewise draws on the story of the Third Reich – this time from its beginning rather than its end – with the German documentary Hindenburg: The Man Who Made Hitler Chancellor” (2013). This well-received Christoph Weinert 90-minute feature makes a number of telling points that local viewers would do well to digest and bear in mind – especially when looking back over events of the transitional period of 1999-2000 in Moscow. 
As the film’s capsule summary puts it, Prior to Hitler's appearance, Paul von Hindenburg was the most charismatic political leader in Germany. He was the most successful German general of the First World War, thanks to which he became a hero in the eyes of the people. After the war, he was twice elected president of the Reich – the only person in German history to that time elected head of state in popular elections. Hindenburg held the office for the rest of his life, but was challenged by the political upstart Adolf Hitler. Hindenburg despised him, but only a few years [after they met], he would bring Hitler to power. Why?” 
Why indeed. Viewers know all too well, of course, what this unfortunate turn of events led to – for Germany, for Russia and for most of the world. A good reason to watch, beyond the edifying historical narrative, is to ponder whether ways might have been found to deprive Hitler of the power handed him by Hindenburg years before humanity had to pay the terrible price it finally did. 
Hindenburg: The Man Who Made Hitler Chancellor / Гинденбург и Гитлер. Viasat History, Thursday at 00:40 a.m. 
On FRIDAY Kultura revisits its Portrait of a Generation rubric for Valery Ogorodnikov’s The Burglar” (1987), a perestroika-era youth film which says a great deal about the kids who weren’t all right 30 years ago. Or rather sings a lot about them, as something like half the movie is given over to Leningrad rock of the day performed by the likes of Alisa, Auktyon, AVIA, Buratino, Kofe and Prisutstvie. 
The Burglar” does have a functional plot: Retreating from a mom’s-gone-dad’s-an-alcoholic broken family, two teenage brothers in Leningrad navigate their way through life in a society at once coming apart, as Communism loses its grip, and coming together, as things foreign – particularly Western music – fill the gap. Younger brother Senka will do whatever he can to help older brother Kostya, who has adopted rebellious punk rock as a way of life and landed in a tough spot; Senka’s commitment leads to a denouement you’ll see coming a mile away – but one which unarguably fits the times. 
While The Burglar” won a modest clutch of foreign and domestic awards, it does not rival the depth and polish of the best youth-angst films of its era – Karen Shaknazarov’s Courier ” (1986), Sergei Solovyov’s Assa” (1987) and Valery Rybarev’s My Name Is Arlekino” (1988), for our money. That said, the movie’s considerable virtues are quite real: The Burglar” offers an engaging sociology of perestroika at the ground level, and it provides a fine platform for the musical and dramatic talents of Alisa frontman Konstantin Kinchyov (as Kostya). 
Kinchyov (b. 1958) claims to have taken the role merely as a way to get around the Soviet anti-unemployment (тунеядство”) law – yet his acting won praise from Janet Maslin of the New York Times (uncomplicatedly sincere”) and brought him the Sofia International Film Festival’s Actor of the Year award. Tune him in for a look and a listen that will remind you why perestroika had to happen…and something rather like it must needs happen again. 
The Burglar / Взломщик. Kultura, Friday at 11:50 p.m. 
Mark H. Teeter is the editor of Moscow TV Tonite on Facebook. 
It’s History of Rock ‘n’ Russia Week on Moscow TV, with a nicely eclectic selection of clips and films on the history of popular music, the end of the last Russian dynasty, and the passing of a way of life in Siberia. Here’s the where and when: On Monday MUZ-TV’s regular Gold Rush segments are featuring the greatest hits of the ‘90s and the aughts (‘00s) – which will seem like ancient history to Millennial viewers (time travel,” the channel calls it) while prompting others to remark aloud that they have socks older than that. Tune in for a look at/listen to the Rock of (Young) Ages, with videos by the likes of Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Guns N’ Roses, Bon Jovi, Green Day and Coldplay – not to mention local favorites Agatha Christie [Агата Кристи], Boris Grebenshchikov/Akvarium and maybe even Enemy of the People” Andrei Makarevich and Time Machine [Машина времени]. 
Gold Rush: Greatest Hits of the ‘90s and ‘00s / Золотаялихорадка. Величайшие хиты 90-х и 00-х. 
MUZ-TV, Monday at 1 p.m., 8 p.m. and 10 p.m. 
On Tuesday Kultura moves us along to real rock history – of six-decade vintage! Hollywood didn’t really trust early rock ‘n’ roll as a stand-alone ticket-selling art form, so what the 1950s youth audience got was low-budget features like this Vanguard Productions' quickie Rock, Rock, Rock” (1956). The third in a series of five movies starring disc jockey and rock ‘n’ roll impresario Alan Freed, Rock, Rock, Rock" has a negligible story (girl wants strapless prom dress, dad says no) but some classic musicians who fairly light up the screen: Tune in and let Chuck Berry, La Vern Baker, Frankie Lymon and the Teenagers, The Flamingos, The Moonglows and The Johnny Burnette Trio show you what rock was like back in the day – and why kids today should be embarrassed not to know their names! 
Rock, Rock, Rock / Рок, рок, рок! 
Kultura, Tuesday at 11:15 a.m. 
March 14 marks the 80th birthday of the late Valentin Rasputin (1937-2015), the most celebrated of Russia’s Village Prose writers. Kultura is honoring the occasion on Tuesday with a good discussion and an award-winning documentary, then on Saturday with two fine films based on Rasputin works. Igor Volgin’s high-dome talk show The Glass Bead Game” invites a literary scholar, a journalist and two writers to review Rasputin’s classic novella "Farewell to Matyora” (1979); this is followed by Sergei Miroshnichenko’s fine The River of Life” (2011), which records how Rasputin and two fellow Siberians, publisher Gennady Pokronov and critic Valentin Kurbatov, deal with the departure of a people and a way of life along Siberia’s Angara River. 
Saturday begins with Yevgeny Tashkov’s French Lessons” (1978), a moving adaptation of Rasputin’s eponymous story of life in an impoverished post-war Siberian backwater – which changes forever when the interplay between a sympathetic young schoolteacher and her 11-year-old pupil produces unanticipated consequences for both. Later in the evening comes Alexander Proshkin’s much-praised Live and Remember” (2008), from Rasputin’s unconventional novella about the consequences of World War II for a young Siberian couple and the price they must pay to live beyond it. This country sorely misses Rasputin’s quiet, perceptive and forceful voice; and these two films, spanning the Brezhnev era and the new millennium, eloquently remind us why. 
The Glass Bead Game with Igor Volgin: Rasputin’s Farewell to Matyora”/ "Игра в бисер" с Игорем Волгиным. В. Распутин. "Прощание с Матерой." 
Kultura, Tuesday at 9:10 p.m. 
The River of Life / Река жизни. Kultura, Tuesday at 9:55 p.m. & Wednesday at 9:55 p.m. 
French Lessons / Уроки французского. Kultura, Saturday at 7:20 p.m. 
Live and Remember / Живи и помни. Kultura, Saturday at 9:10 p.m. 
On Thursday evening Kultura marks the 100th anniversary of the end of the Romanov dynasty with a unique documentary triple feature. Leading off is Alexander Stolyarov’s Read and White: Ermler and Shulgin” (2010), an account of how Soviet director and arch-propagandist Fridrikh Ermler came to meet with the former tsarist Duma leader and anti-Bolshevik Vasily Shulgin – the man delegated to accept the abdication document from Nicholas II in 1917 – and make a film about what had gone right and wrong in 20th-century Russian history. 
The unlikely pair were brought together in 1965 at Lenfilm and eventually produced the evening’s second and even more remarkable feature, Facing the Judgment of History” (1965). While the film’s clear intention was to demonstrate that the White monarchist had been mistaken in his resistance to the Bolshevik coup and Soviet power, Shulgin proved such a dynamic and convincing figure that audiences felt he won Ermler’s elaborately staged historical debate.” The film was therefore withdrawn from circulation by Soviet authorities after three days in Moscow and Leningrad theaters… and the past was allowed to remain where it had been for another 20 years. 
The third Thursday feature is the premiere of an archival documentary” in the Case No.” series: The Abdication of Nicholas II: The Last Document of the Empire” (2017) examines a unique collection of documents pertaining to the last Russian emperor and his family – the ‘New Romanov Archive.’” Guided by Sergei Mironenko – one of Russia’s finest historians and Scholarly Director of the Russian Federation State Archive – the film affords a rare chance to see and consider the extant material evidence related to Nicholas’s renunciation of the Russian throne. 
Read and White: Ermler and Shulgin / Красное и Белое. Эрмлер и Шульгин. Kultura, Thursday at 8:30 p.m. 
Facing the Judgment of History / Перед судом истории. Kultura, Thursday at 9:25 p.m. 
The Abdication of Nicholas II: The Last Document of the Empire / Отречение Николая II: последний документ Империи. Kultura, Thursday at 11:00 p.m. 
Mark H. Teeter is the editor of Moscow TV Tonite on Facebook 
It’s "original gulag, Mississippi Gothic and Vladimir Vysotsky week" on Moscow TV, with the small screen offering viewers fine feature films and documentaries on a rich array of themes: The origins of the Soviet state security system, the United States' greatest Southern writer, the archetypal Big Brother and Russia’s greatest actor-singer-poet of the 20th century. Here’s the where and when: 
On MONDAY Kultura’s excellent Telling Time” documentary series takes on a topic both weightier and more timely than most with The All-Russian Extraordinary Commission (Cheka): The First Steps” (2017). This latest installment of the how-the-past-was-seen-in-its-present chronicle offers, as the trailer notes, The first cinema newsreel account of the work of the Cheka [BЧК]” – the organizational progenitor of the Soviet secret police and spying organizations, which were many and fearful. And are not exactly extinct. 
The significance of this organization is hard to overestimate but easy enough to summarize: In December 1917 the Council of People's Commissars formed the All-Russian Extraordinary Commission – the Cheka – with the aim of combatting counter-revolution and sabotage. The Chekists began with property confiscation, deportation into forced labor and eviction from the major cities of all who were suspected of disloyalty to the Bolsheviks. 
"[This] was inconceivable… without intimidation, and the Cheka became a machine for intimidating and suppressing any resistance to the new government. In August 1918, Lenin demanded that ‘the Soviet Republic be protected from class enemies by isolating them in concentration camps,’ and this order from the Chief People's Commissar was immediately carried out – meaning that concentration camps appeared in Russia in the first year of Soviet power.” 
Join host Viktor Batalin and special services historian” Vadim Burlak for a unique cinematic look at the infancy of a vast system of repression that took decades to build and generations to dismantle – and incompletely at that. 
On TUESDAY viewers can ponder anew a question that has long stumped local literati of two nationalities: The popular Russian pantheon of Great American Authors is anchored by such straightforward” prose writers as Twain, Hemingway, Fitzgerald and Salinger – so how did it come to include the modernist, regional dialect-heavy, hard-to-translate William Faulkner? Put otherwise: Can Russians really be entertained by ornately-streamed events in a Mississippi county called Yoknapatawpha – or even spell it? 
Easiest first: Of course they can – Йокнапатофа. As to explaining the remarkably successful translation of the Faulkner oeuvre into Russian, viewers can get a sense of what’s behind it when the Illiuzion + channel airs James Franco’s film of one the Southern Nobel laureate’s early masterworks, As I Lay Dying” (2013). 
The very idea of making a movie out of this 15-narrator, stream-of-consciousness account of Addie Bundren's cross-county journey to her grave may seem daunting in the extreme; and adding to it a soundtrack that renders the author's unique American-Southern-rural idiom into understandable Russian might seem next to impossible. Yet both can be done, and have been. 
The big screen actually does a lot to free up” the multiple-narration through the very movement that film by definition requires: the audience gets to see how the characters’ interior monologues are connected to and reflected in natural life and the real world – or James Franco's vision of them, anyway. Russian textual renditions of Faulkner, moreover, have always been the province of the country’s best English translators, led by Viktor Golyshev – the patriarch of the national school of literary translation” – whose version of Dying” won the prestigious Inostrannaya Literatura journal’s translation prize for 1990. To the extent that Faulkner is gettable in Russian, it’s Golyshev who got him. 
This movie was a barely-released, very art-house film of modest backing, but it won several awards (including a nice nod at Cannes) and some high praise from highbrow critics (including the New York Times). Tune in and judge for yourself just how well the multiple transitions of language, culture and genre come off – and whether the Faulkner-in-Russia cult makes more sense afterwards. It'll likely be the most challenging thing you do on Tuesday, and quite probably the most worthwhile. 
As I Lay Dying / Когда я умирала. Illiuzion +, Tuesday at 10:15 p.m. 
Late WEDNESDAY night viewers can enjoy (if that’s the word) a very good cinematic version of one of the defining novels of the past century: Michael Radford’s adaptation of George Orwell’s Nineteen Eighty-Four” (1984). If there is a film more timely for a 2017 Moscow audience – or for audiences across today’s budding Eurasia,” Oceania” and Eastasia,” for that matter – it is difficult to think of it. 
Orwell’s novel, as is well known here, had a Russian forerunner – Evgeny Zamyatin’s classic We” (1921), which Orwell read (in French), reviewed and reportedly owned would serve as the model for his next novel.” Yet the two accounts of dystopian societies are quite distinct: As one critic put it, Orwell's novel is both bleaker and more topical than Zamyatin's, lacking entirely that ironic humor that pervades the Russian work.” This bleakness is felt throughout Radford’s adaptation – indeed, rather more so than in the first film version of the novel, Michael Anderson’s creditable 1956 rendition. 
The New York Times’ Vincent Canby was right to call the Radford version admirable, bleakly beautiful” though not an easy film to watch” – which it shouldn’t be, of course, as the sad life and sadder fate of Winston Smith are meant to trouble us. 
William Hurt has been called perfect” as the beleaguered Winston, and both Suzanna Hamilton (Julia) and Richard Burton (O’Brien – his final role) are very fine as well. Tune in and appreciate this well-crafted cautionary tale; then watch the next evening news broadcast on Channel 1 – or even better (i.e. worse), the next presidential call-in show – and see how far you have to go before you sincerely love Big Brother. 
Nineteen Eighty-Four / Тысяча девятьсот восемьдесят четвёртый. AMC, Thursday at 00:45 a.m. 
On THURSDAY viewers seeking a better understanding of the cultural phenomenon that was Vladimir Vysotsky get a good look at the last year of his life in Pyotr Buslov’s Vysotsky: Thanks for Being Alive” (2011). This biographical drama” written by Buslov and Nikita Vysotsky (the performer’s son) was one of the most anticipated and discussed films in a long time – and, probably inevitably, one of the most controversial: everyone has his own Vysotsky, and everyone wants to keep him that way. 
The man was a talent of the first rank in theater, film and poetry as well, a daring multi-venue creative artist of such breadth and national popularity that the Deep Stagnation cultural minders were forced to fight a constant battle within their own ranks (and kept losing it) over how to shape an official reaction to him: Vysotsky was too big to repress, impossible to co-opt and too real (un-Soviet) to encourage – so the great dead hand of Soviet officialdom wavered. And wavered. And finally waited him out. 
While Russians continue to argue over Thanks,” it is by any measure a production that demands attention and keeps you watching throughout. It made a lot of rubles, too, and continues to score very well on KinoPoisk (7.2/10). That said, it also bears mentioning that the sadness evoked by the last year of any great artist’s life is multiplied here by both the youth of the subject (1938-1980) and the knowledge that he didn’t make it to perestroika, much less 1991. 
Yet there’s something heartening in the fact that Vysotsky as we see him here knew a full year before his death that his time was at hand – and thus spent his final months in ways he felt appropriate. How many stars of such magnitude are that lucky”? 
Vysotsky: Thanks for Being Alive / Высоцкий. Спасибо, что живой. Nashe Novoe Kino, Thursday at 12:50 p.m. 
FRIDAY. The mini-genre of Soviet Cinema About Making Movies in the Crimea During the Russian Civil War was begun by Evgeny Karelov’s Two Army Comrades” (1968) and ended by Nikita Mikhalkov’s A Slave of Love” (1975). While Slave” drew far more attention (and many more awards) outside the USSR, Comrades” is a better film (ask any Russian) and surely deserves more attention now: It features two icons of Soviet/Russian performing arts – the late Oleg Yankovsky and the immortal Vladimir Vysotsky – along with a cast so good it feels cheap to call it supporting.” 
Comrades” is also a great anomaly, a seemingly self-conflicted Soviet anti-war epic: The film actually summons up real sympathy for (are you sitting down?) the Russian Whites – the mortal enemies of the Party which, of course, paid to make the film. 
The action unfolds in November 1920 as the sometimes heroic/often misguided Wrangel contingent is rapidly disintegrating: Both the Reds and their currently-allied Makhno confederates are closing in fast, and there’s not much Crimea left to back into. A two-man Bolshevik camera crew (Yankovsky and Bykov) is sent up in a plane with a war-booty 35-mm movie camera to capture the White positions on film – and does so, but is forced down in the process, with the two Red moviemakers falling into the hands of the Makhnovtsy. 
Meanwhile, the film’s second plot – which joins the first only at the end, and sadly – presents a gallant White cavalry officer named Brusentsov (Vysotsky), who successfully makes his way to Sevastopol for evacuation with Wrangel’s remnants. But once there he no longer sees the point; his life is unraveling, since everything that matters to him – homeland, wife and even his faithful horse – now belongs to the past. 
Comrades” has been labeled a tragicomedy, but a mood of elegiac melancholy is what prevails on balance. Screenwriters Yuly Dunsky and Valery Frid had both done Gulag stretches, and Karelov’s cinematic points of reference were two sobering classics: Paths of Glory” and All Quiet on the Western Front.” This is a serious and rewarding film, at all events, and one whose honored place in the nation’s film archive remains secure. 
Two Army Comrades [aka Two Comrades Were Serving] / Cлужили два товарища. R1, Friday at 11:00 a.m. 
Mark H. Teeter is the editor of Moscow TV Tonite on Facebook. 
Moscow claimed Tuesday that Ukrainian forces were planning to use Western-supplied missiles to strike targets inside Russia and the annexed peninsula of Crimea, threatening "immediate retaliation." 
"The leadership of Ukraine's armed forces plans to strike Russian territory, including Crimea, with HIMARS and Storm Shadow missiles," Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said during a meeting with military officials. 
Shoigu warned of swift retaliation in the event the weapons were used to strike targets inside Russia or on the Black Sea territory that Moscow annexed in 2014. 
"The use of these missiles outside the zone of the special military operation will mean the United States and Great Britain's full involvement in the conflict and will entail immediate strikes on decision-making centers in Ukraine," Shoigu said. 
The United States has spearheaded the push for military support for Ukraine, quickly forging an international coalition to back Kyiv after Russia sent troops to Ukraine in February 2022 and coordinating aid from dozens of countries. 
Moscow has accused Western countries of directly waging warfare against Russia by arming Ukraine. 
In recent weeks drone attacks have struck cities in Russia and targets in Crimea, but Kyiv has not claimed responsibility for the incidents. 
Dear reader, Welcome to The Moscow Times’ weekly email digest, where we bring you the best of our reporting, opinion pieces, and more. Defense Minister Andrei Belousov said Russia has seized 800 square kilometers of Ukrainian territory since the start of the year. If confirmed, Moscow will have captured more land in the past five months than in the whole of 2023. Meanwhile, Russian forces continue to attack Ukraine’s northwestern Kharkiv region after they punched across the border earlier this month in a surprise ground offensive. Here are the week’s other top stories: 
Washington has relaxed its ban on Ukraine using U.S.-supplied weapons to strike military targets on Russian soil. Kyiv will be allowed to target military sites directly involved in the attack on the Kharkiv region. 
A new song by Russian pop star Monetochka is inspiring Russians to share videos on social media of what life was like before the full-scale invasion. 
The governors of the Samara region and Khanti-Mansi autonomous district have both resigned as part of cadre changes ahead of regional elections in September. 
President Vladimir Putin authorized the state-owned Rostelekom giant to buy out the Finnish mobile operator Nokia. 
Did someone forward this email to you? Subscribe to receive our newsletter every Friday. 
Podcast: Decoding the Reshuffles in Ramzan Kadyrov’s Regime 
Several senior officials in Chechnya have been reshuffled or replaced this month. Meanwhile, Ramzan Kadyrov's children have been appointed to a number of government posts. And according to media reports, the strongman ruler is gravely ill. 
Harold Chambers, an analyst focusing on nationalism, conflict and security in the North Caucasus, joins us to explain what it all means. Listen here. 
A small Indigenous community in Russia’s Far East republic of Sakha (Yakutia) is challenging a gold-mining company owned by Russian magnate Alexei Mordashov, in what they see as a last-ditch attempt to preserve their traditional livelihoods. Read more. 
The exhibition at the heart of the Dutch capital displays 16 stories of politicians, activists, artists and public figures designated as political prisoners by human rights groups. Read more. 
Russia’s Finance Ministry has submitted a major tax reform plan that would introduce a progressive tax system and increase corporations’ contributions to the state budget. Here’s an overview of the proposed changes and why they are happening now. Read more. 
Opinion 
By Charles Digges The half-finished effort to clean up the remnants of the Soviet nuclear fleet took international cooperation, which the war made impossible, risking a radioactive disaster. Read more. 
By Ekaterina Kurbangaleeva Many formerly badly paid Russian blue-collar workers have seen their salaries skyrocket since the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, far outpacing inflation. Read more. 
By Harold Chambers Concluding that mass abductions and changes in Chechen leadership mean Kadyrov’s regime is weakening misses the power coming from fear. Read more. 
TBILISI, Georgia — Anton reached into his backpack and pulled out a pair of plastic goggles and a meager cloth face mask — protection against tear gas and pepper spray. 
That night, like the night before, the 34-year-old Russian emigre and self-described political activist planned to stay out until daybreak alongside Georgian protesters, showing solidarity against what he sees as a potential Russian-style dictatorship” emerging in Georgia should the country’s parliament approve a controversial foreign influence” bill. 
In a Thursday evening interview with the Moscow Times in downtown Tbilisi, Anton, who requested not to publish his surname over fear of running into trouble with the Georgian authorities, said that he intends to keep going until the protests end. 
I can’t help but go out,” he said. My moral compass demands it.” 
Each night, he joins tens of thousands of Georgians who have taken to the streets across the country for over two weeks now in opposition to legislation that would require organizations receiving more than 20% of their funding from abroad to identify as agents of foreign influence.” The ruling Georgian Dream coalition maintains that such legislation is a necessary transparency measure, but critics say it is a facsimile of repressive laws in Russia. 
Like Anton, other members of Tbilisi’s sizable Russian diaspora community have come out to demonstrate against the bill, highlighting a desire to protest against familiar traces of authoritarianism despite potential legal risks down the road. 
The ongoing protests seem to have posed to them an uncomfortable question: Is this the time and place to speak out? Opinions diverge on the issue. And it is impossible to know how many Russians have attended the protests. 
But those who do go often prefer to keep a low profile. 
Many in the diaspora community simply choose to stay away, said Alexander, a 36-year-old Russian emigre in Tbilisi who requested to use only his first name due to concerns over possible reprisal by the Russian authorities. 
It’s complicated,” he said of his own thoughts on attending the protests as a Russian citizen. I don’t want to be an imposter for Georgian people.” 
Nevertheless, when a Georgian friend asked him if he wanted to attend a demonstration earlier this week, his curiosity got the better of him. He initially went just to observe, he said, but he could not help getting caught up in the emotion of the moment. 
It’s like a wave of inspiration that Georgia deserves to have a bright future in the European Union,” he said of the mood during the protest. Demonstrations show no sign of slowing down, and Alexander said he plans to go again. 
Even so, he and others know they are risking potential legal troubles. Georgia maintains a liberal entry regime for foreigners including Russians, who can stay in the country for one year without a visa. But their access can sometimes depend on the whims of the authorities, who can refuse entry at any point. 
That is to say nothing of Russians’ constant fear for the safety of loved ones back home if they are visibly active in politics, even while abroad. 
In that regard, Moscow does appear to be watching the protests in the South Caucasian country closely. Georgia is our neighbor. It is in our interests that the situation in Georgia is stable and predictable,” Kremlin Spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters in early April. 
State Duma Chairman Vyacheslav Volodin, echoing Georgian Dream’s rhetoric in an apparent attempt to discredit the protesters, wrote on Telegram on April 18 that [those] who oppose the adoption of the law clearly act in the interests of another state, not exactly their own country.” 
Yet the warnings from Moscow appear to have little influence over Russian emigres in their decision to attend the protests or not. 
At a demonstration in front of the Georgian parliament building on April 20, a group of Russian women unfurled a purple banner with a simple message written in English: This law was passed in Russia,” referring to Russia’s own foreign agents” law adopted in 2012. 
They also carried signs decrying the law’s devastating effects. That’s why a million Russians left [the country],” one sign read. That’s why the war [in Ukraine] has been going on for two years,” read another. 
One of the participants in that demonstration was Ekaterina, 30, who requested not to use her last name. She said that by taking part in the action, she wanted to draw a connection to how similar legislation has harmed people in other countries, including Russia. 
I certainly understand how Georgians feel with the possibility of this happening to them,” she said. And I really want to support them.” 
Georgians themselves seem to be welcoming — even encouraging — Russian emigres to participate. 
When asked at Thursday’s rally whether he believed Russians should be attending the ongoing demonstrations in Georgia, 20-year-old protester Archil Tumanishvili said they should. If they’re running away from the Russian regime, then yes,” he said. Otherwise it means they’re using this [country] as a hideout and a shelter.” 
Russians have received a cold welcome in Georgia since arriving over the border in droves after the Kremlin announced a partial” military mobilization in September 2022. 
Even at the main protest site along Tbilisi’s main thoroughfare Rustaveli Avenue, signs of anti-Russian sentiment abound. Graffiti scrawled on walls and sidewalks reads Fuck Ruzzia.” So, too, have Georgians adopted the slogan No to the Russian law!” as their primary message at the demonstrations. 
Ekaterina said that last year, she experienced one moment of anti-Russian sentiment at protests against a previous version of the foreign influence” law — which Georgian Dream shelved following mass rallies — but the mood from Georgians this time around is anything but hostile. 
They hear that we speak Russian, they have no problem approaching us,” she said, adding that she believes some Russian emigres believe it is not their place to get involved with another country’s internal affairs. 
But based on her experience, she thinks Georgians who come out to protest will not say that you have no moral right to stand with us on Rustaveli.” 
Ahead of a verdict expected next week, outspoken Kremlin critic Vladimir Kara-Murza, who has been put on trial for treason in Moscow for his outspoken anti-war comments, gave the following address to the court on Monday. 
I was sure that after two decades in Russian politics, with all that I have seen and experienced, nothing could still surprise me. I have to admit that I was wrong. I've been surprised by the fact that my trial in 2023 surpassed even the "trials" of Soviet dissidents in the 1960s and 70s in its secrecy and disdain for legal norms, and that's without even mentioning the harshness of the sentence requested by the prosecution or the use of terms such as "enemy of the state." My trial had less in common with the 1970s — it was a return to the 1930s. As a historian, I find this something worthy of reflection. 
At one point during my testimony, the presiding judge reminded me that "remorse for the deed committed" could be considered an extenuating circumstance. Though there's little amusing about my present predicament, I couldn't help but smile. Criminals are expected to show remorse for their actions, but I'm in prison for my political views. For speaking out against the war in Ukraine. For fighting Putin's dictatorship for years. For enabling the adoption of personal sanctions against human rights violators under the "Magnitsky Act." 
Not only do I not repent of any of this, I'm proud of it. I'm proud of the fact that Boris Nemtsov brought me into politics and I hope he isn't ashamed of me. I stand by every word I've ever uttered and by every word this court accuses me of saying. I only blame myself for one thing: for failing to convince enough of my compatriots and politicians in democratic countries of the danger that the current Kremlin regime poses to Russia and to the world. Today it is obvious to everyone, but at a terrible price — the price of war. 
In their closing statements, defendants usually ask the court to acquit them. For a person who did not commit a crime, the only fair verdict would be an acquittal. But I ask nothing of this court. I know its verdict. I knew it a year ago when I saw people in black uniforms and black masks running after my car in the rearview mirror. This is the price of not remaining silent in Russia today. 
But I also know that the day will come when the darkness over our country will dissipate. When black will be called black and white will be called white. When it will officially be recognized that two times two is four, when the war will be called a war and the usurper a usurper, and when those who began it rather than those who tried to prevent it will be seen as criminals. 
As inevitably as spring follows even the harshest winter, that day will come. And when it does, our society will open its eyes and be horrified to discover the terrible crimes that have been committed in its name. From this realization, the long, difficult, but vital path toward recovery, Russia's restoration, and its return to the community of civilized nations will begin. 
Even today, even in the darkness around us, even sitting in this cage, I love my country and I believe in our people. I believe that we can walk this path. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Thousands of mourners gathered in Moscow on Friday to say goodbye to the late opposition activist Alexei Navalny. 
We spoke to some of those who went to the memorial service so that they could share their thoughts about him and the government's response to the funeral. 
Nearly 100 wildfires are currently burning in Russia’s Far East republic of Sakha (Yakutia), the local branch of the Russian emergencies ministry said Monday. 
The 98 wildfires have engulfed a combined area of 125,600 hectares (310,364 acres) of land — roughly half the size of the country of Luxembourg, authorities said. 
Emergency officials added that they are continuously monitoring the smoke” from the fires, as several settlements across the region were reported to be blanketed in smoke. 
Summer wildfires are an annual occurrence in the republic of Sakha, Russia’s largest and coldest region. But these events have become more severe in recent years as Russia’s Arctic regions warm more than twice as fast as the global average. 
Grigory Kuksin, an independent wildfire prevention expert, told The Moscow Times that the situation in Sakha this year has been pretty bad,” and authorities are effectively not required to take action against their further spread. 
This is because most of the fires are burning in so-called control zones,” or areas where regional authorities are not required by law to extinguish them because there is no direct threat to residential areas or economically important infrastructure. 
So far [authorities] have been unable to bring fires in these remote areas under control. [They’re] successful only when it starts to rain,” Kuksin added. 
Since the beginning of this year’s wildfire season, more than 700 wildfires have been registered in Sakha, impacting a total area of 1.2 million hectares, according to Avialesookhrana, a branch of Russia’s Federal Forest Agency. 
Kuksin said that the wildfire situation this year has been challenging not just in Yakutia, but in all regions with large control zones." 
Many regions [have been impacted], especially the Far East and northern Siberia — territories where the population is small and where authorities are only required to protect settlements. The decision to reduce the number of ‘control zones’ is already in place, but regions still lack funding for this.” 
He noted that while a number of steps have been taken since last year to reduce the number of control zones, many regions still lack adequate funding to combat fires in non-control zones. 
Scientists say that human-induced climate change is making seasonal wildfires more frequent and intense by creating ideal conditions for fires such as more prolonged droughts. 
Kuksin said the scale of the wildfires in Yakutia is more or less standard,” but added that the climate crisis is already showing its wildfire potential in other parts of Russia — especially in the Ural Mountains region. 
This year we’ve seen an abnormal number of peat fires, especially in the Sverdlovsk and Chelyabinsk regions. There has been an abnormal drought [there] for three years now.” 
The spread of wildfires in Sakha comes as temperatures in large swathes of Russia continued to hover at record highs. 
But environmental groups have cautioned against directly attributing wildfires to extreme heat, as the blazes are primarily the result of man-made fires. 
At least 79 civilians have been killed on Russian soil since Moscow launched its invasion of Ukraine last year, the independent news website 7x7 reported Tuesday. 
The Belgorod region which borders Ukraine, which has regularly been targeted by drone attacks and shelling, saw the highest share of civilian losses, with 48 people killed. 
Other casualties were reported in the Krasnodar region (16), the Bryansk region (10) and the Kursk region (five), with the age of the victims ranging from 5 to 84 years old, the outlet said. 
The outlet tallied civilian deaths by monitoring local and national news coverage as well as posts and comments by victims' relatives and friends on Russian social media. Some of the victims' names were given to the outlet by the victims' relatives themselves. 
Russia's regions bordering Ukraine have been regularly shelled since the start of the invasion in February 2022, with civilian and military sites targeted in attacks. 
In June, intensifying cross-border attacks sparked a mass evacuation from the Belgorod region’s Shebekino district. 
Last year, Belgorod region Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov and Kursk Governor Roman Starovoit announced the formation of territorial self-defense units. 
Russia’s capital Moscow has also been targeted by drones this summer. The independent Vyorstka media outlet said this week that Moscow and the Moscow region have been targeted by at least 28 drone attacks. 
Ukrainian officials have never acknowledged responsibility for the attacks on Russian territory. 
Following a drone attack on the Moscow City financial district, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Sunday said the war was coming back to Russia. 
A new source of methane discharge has been discovered in the Arctic Ocean near eastern Siberia, raising concerns of a new tipping point” that could speed up the pace of global warming, The Guardian reported Tuesday. 
Scientists found the potent greenhouse gas bubbling from a depth of 350 meters in the Laptev Sea, with surface-level concentrations that vent into the atmosphere between four and eight times the normal amount. One of the six monitoring points showed methane concentrations 400 times higher than expected under the normal air-sea equilibrium. 
The discovery of actively releasing shelf slope hydrates is very important and unknown until now. This is a new page,” said Igor Semiletov, chief scientist onboard the Akademik M. Keldysh research vessel that’s part of a multi-year Russian-Swedish International Siberian Shelf Study expedition. 
The discovery is prompting concerns that a new feedback loop that accelerates climate change may have already been triggered. A recent study co-authored by a member of the expedition found that the loop could be activated if the Arctic warms by just a few degrees. 
At this moment, there is unlikely to be any major impact on global warming, but the point is that this process has now been triggered,” Swedish scientist and study co-author Örjan Gustafsson told The Guardian from the vessel. 
This East Siberian slope methane hydrate system has been perturbed and the process will be ongoing.” 
The Guardian reported that warm Atlantic currents driven by human-induced climate disruption are the likely cause of the massive methane discharge. 
The Arctic is warming twice as fast as any other place on Earth and The Guardian reported that it is yet to begin freezing for the winter, already surpassing records for the latest date for sea ice formation after melting unusually early this spring. 
This is potentially the third source of methane emissions from the shallower parts of the Laptev Sea and the East Siberian Sea. Semiletov’s expedition released first photos of a massive fountain of methane gas bubbling from the floor of the East Siberian Sea last fall. 
The scientists stressed that their findings are considered preliminary until they analyze the data collected on the ground and have their studies peer-reviewed. 
The discovery of actively releasing shelf slope hydrates is very important and unknown until now,” Semiletov said. Potentially they can have serious climate consequences, but we need more study before we can confirm that.” 
Russian state media on Sunday profiled a bakery 400 kilometers south of Moscow that doubles as a drone-manufacturing plant. 
The Russian government daily Rossiiskaya Gazeta first reported on the Tambov Bakery’s drone production in March this year. 
The publication said at the time the bakery started assembling unmanned aerial vehicles, dubbed Bekas,” on an urgent request from soldiers to whom it had supplied bread. 
Last year, the military asked to send drones — the more the better,” said Tambov Bakery’s deputy director Alexander Rudik, a former communications officer and a reserve lieutenant colonel. 
On Sunday, a correspondent with the state broadcaster Rossia showed the drones side-by-side with freshly baked bread on an assembly line. 
Can you imagine? They smell like fresh bread,” he said. 
The Tambov Bakery boasts the capacity to bake 35 metric tons of flour-based goods. 
At the same time, it is reported to produce 200 drones a month which sell for 25,000-50,000 rubles ($250-500) a piece. 
Russia has sought in recent months to ramp up its domestic production of drones to use in its war on Ukraine, which is entering its 20th month. 
This summer, activists in central Russia reported that a sanctioned drone manufacturer had converted at least three shopping malls into drone production facilities. 
They brought me to a dimly lit room filled with a heavy stench,” Denis, 34, said of his arrest in southern Russia by Federal Security Service (FSB) officers. There was a big table, eerie concrete walls, floor and ceiling, and — this was imprinted in my memory — a portrait of Putin. It looked like a torture chamber. They forced me to sit on a chair, put a plastic bag on my head again and started beating me.” 
Denis was arrested last year on apparent suspicion of involvement in an anti-Kremlin paramilitary group fighting alongside the Ukrainian army. He is now sharing his story for the first time. 
For safety reasons, his surname and some details about his story have been withheld. 
For years, Denis had been a part of the fan culture surrounding his hometown Moscow's FC Spartak football team. When Russia invaded Ukraine in February 2022, he said the fan community split in two, with those who supported the invasion on one side and those who opposed it on the other. Denis fell into the second camp. 
I had more right-leaning views before, but of course, when the war started, I supported Ukraine. I have people I know there, even friends, Ukrainians I constantly kept in contact with,” he told The Moscow Times. 
Today, he said he believes that he caught the FSB’s interest because a pro-war fan told the authorities that Denis was planning to enlist in one of the Russian paramilitary groups fighting against the Russian army in Ukraine. 
On Jan. 12, 2023, Denis was crossing the border with Georgia for a vacation” when he was stopped by border guards and asked to unlock his phone. 
After he refused, the guards undressed him and discovered a tattoo of an Iron Cross — a German military emblem often used by the far right — on his shoulder. The Iron Cross is considered by Russian authorities to be a display of extremist” or Nazi” symbols, a crime in Russia. 
The border guards’ examination swiftly turned into an interrogation. Denis was accused of wanting to kill Russians” and asked how many of his friends had gone to fight for Ukraine. 
The experience recounted by Denis reflects a wider trend in which the FSB targets people believed to be involved with the volunteer paramilitary groups fighting for Ukraine, which have launched several cross-border incursions since the start of the war. 
A lot of effort is put into identifying not just those who are cooperating with these organizations, but also anyone remotely inclined to do so,” Yevgeny Smirnov, a lawyer and civil rights activist who focuses on persecution by the special services, told The Moscow Times. 
In late March, the FSB said it had arrested seven people in Moscow. The suspects were alleged supporters of the Russian Volunteer Corps, one of these militias. 
The FSB and their associates try to probe people to find out their attitude toward the Russian Volunteer Corps and the Freedom of Russia Legion,” Smirnov said. If a person turns out to be at least slightly sympathetic, the enforcers provoke them to formulate the ‘right’ phrase: a phrase fit for prosecuting that person as a terrorist.” 
Interrogation 
After refusing to unlock his phone a second time, Denis said the border guards started slapping his face and spitting at him. He threw his phone against the floor in frustration, breaking the device. Soon after, the guards handed Denis to FSB agents, who put a plastic bag over his head and locked him in a minivan. 
‘We’ve already stamped your passport. It means that you have already crossed the Georgian border. You are f***ed. Everyone will think you fell from a mountain, and nobody will ever find you’ — that’s how they were threatening me,” Denis recalled. I told them my mother was a lawyer and that she would find me.” 
He said he believes the building he was eventually brought into was the regional FSB headquarters in Vladikavkaz, the capital of the North Caucasus republic of North Ossetia. 
They brought me to a dimly lit room filled with a heavy stench. There was a big table, eerie concrete walls, floor and ceiling, and — this was imprinted in my memory — a portrait of Putin. It looked like a torture chamber. They forced me to sit on a chair, put a plastic bag on my head again and started beating me. They demanded that I unlock my phone.” 
Denis said he was able to endure the beating because he was physically in shape. 
They kept abusing me, but at one point they took the bag off so that I wouldn’t suffocate,” he said. 
But then they moved to the most unpleasant part of the ‘interrogation’ — the electricity. My hands were cuffed to the chair behind my back. They greased both of my hands with something and started electrocuting me. I don’t know if they were using a live wire, but it felt like one. They shocked my neck once too, but they were mostly passing the current through my hands.” 
The FSB officers repeatedly accused Denis of being a Nazi. Fed up, he told them they were Nazis themselves, as they were the ones abducting a person and torturing him with electricity. 
What, you think the SBU [Security Service of Ukraine] is any better?” he recalled one of the officers saying in response. 
When Denis could no longer endure the torture and humiliation, he kicked the chair over while still cuffed to it, and started rolling on the floor and moaning. His interrogators removed his handcuffs and sat on him. 
Then I curled up so that they couldn't unclench my hands or hurt me in any way. I remember one of them laughing and saying ‘Look, he’s acting like he’s exercising.’ I don’t remember how long it lasted. … I lost track of time, it was like a bad dream.” 
After a while, Denis finally managed to break away and run to the next room over, a kitchen. The officers cornered him against a wall. 
One FSB officer who wore a Columbia Sportswear hat and appeared to be the commander ordered the others to stop. 
If only you’d use all that energy of yours for the right cause,” Denis recalled the man saying. 
I won’t tell you what I thought at that moment,” Denis said. 
They cuffed me again, put a bag on my head and put me into a car. They kept saying ‘We don’t give a f*** about you, it’s just a matter of time before we hack your phone. You’re just making things worse for yourself’.” 
Arrest 
Denis was returned to the border checkpoint and asked to sign a document stating he had no legal complaints against the police and had voluntarily agreed not to cross the border. He refused and was transferred to the local police, who brought him back to Vladikavkaz. 
The next day, a court charged him with disorderly conduct for swearing at the border crossing and sentenced him to 15 days of arrest. 
During the last hour of his sentence, Denis was visited by the head of the detention center, who ordered his staff to report Denis for allegedly making a mess in his cell. He was then moved to a holding cell and left there overnight. 
They had left me to spend the night locked with a hobo-looking alcoholic. It was winter, so I was wearing a parka and jeans,” he said. 
In the morning, security officers brought him into a room where he was met by eight individuals who identified themselves as employees of Russia’s Center for Combating Extremism. 
It turned out that my cellmate reported me to the police and claimed I was showing him my Iron Cross tattoo — in other words, ‘displaying a symbol of an extremist nature.’ The cross is tattooed on my bicep, you can’t even see it from under a shirt. Maybe they gave him a bottle of vodka to report that.” 
Denis was then brought to the court again and charged with the administrative offenses of dirtying his cell and displaying an extremist symbol.” His mother, a practicing lawyer, came to Vladikavkaz but was not allowed to represent her son. He was arrested for another 11 days. 
Once he was released from custody, Denis and his mother returned to Moscow, where he was detained almost immediately after getting off the plane. 
At the baggage claim, I saw policemen talking on their radios and looking at me. I realized what was going on — and in a moment they walked up to me and told me I was to be arrested, as I was on the BOLO [law enforcement bulletin].” 
Denis was brought to a building across from the airport. His mother’s claim that she was his legal representative was again ignored. 
I was brought into an interrogation room and seated at the table. Then two individuals wearing face masks came in. The first one started asking me about football fans, about Ukraine, all of these questions again. Then he pointed at the second thug and said ‘Look, he just came back from the front, you are f***ed’.” 
Denis was again asked how many of his friends had gone to fight for Ukraine and pressed to explain why he broke his phone. After he did not answer, the interrogators made Denis sign an agreement saying he had voluntarily cooperated with the FSB. 
He was sat in front of a camera and forced to promise to remove his tattoo and to say he supported Russia’s special military operation” in Ukraine. 
They must have thought they would get dirt on me like this. They told me, ‘We’ll keep it for ourselves, so that your friends would beat the s*** out of you, just in case.’ They also said that I must report anyone willing to join the Russian Volunteer Corps or who is already a part of the organization.” 
Departure 
After leaving the building, Denis said he decided he could no longer live in fear. Within a month, he had left Russia. He asked that the details of his departure not be published due to safety reasons. 
According to human rights activist Smirnov, despite torture being prohibited under Russian law, law enforcement services encourage the practice among its officers. 
Last month, the key suspects in the Crocus City Hall massacre appeared in court with clear signs of abuse after unverified footage appeared to show them being tortured during their interrogation. 
Before the war … 90% of those charged with terrorism were tortured — and it didn’t even matter if they were proven guilty. Now, since the beginning of the war, the number of criminal offenses where torture of suspects with impunity is allowed has increased,” Smirnov said. 
Experts interviewed by the Financial Times said the Russian special services’ top priority is suppressing the pro-democratic opposition and persecuting those who support Ukraine — and that they prioritize these efforts over preventing actual terrorist threats. 
As a result, the gruesome interrogation practices, including torture, once reserved for terrorism suspects have increasingly been directed at political activists. 
It’s like there is a solid wall: even if there is physical proof of torture, like bruises or marks from electrocution and beating, getting justice is virtually impossible,” Smirnov said. It appears to be a coordinated policy, implying that anyone supervising compliance with the law is supposed to turn a blind eye.” 
Four leaks were detected last month in the gas pipelines linking Russia to Europe; Nord Stream 2 and Nord Stream 1. In all likelihood, the incidents were an act of sabotage. In this episode, we discuss the leaks’ environmental and geopolitical impacts with Sascha Müller-Kraenner, the CEO of Deutsche Umwelthilfe (Environmental Action Germany), a leading environmental, nature conservation, and consumer advocacy organisation. Are the leaks the methane bomb we fear and what can we do to fix them? Moreover, could these events prompt governments to take climate security - and energy security - more seriously? 
North Korean leader Kim Jong Un left Russia on Sunday on his armoured train, Russian news agencies reported, wrapping up a six-day trip which has focused largely on military matters. 
Kim's first official visit abroad since the coronavirus pandemic has fanned Western fears that Moscow and Pyongyang will defy sanctions and strike an arms deal. 
The RIA Novosti agency published a video of Kim's departure, and said a "departure ceremony" was held at the Artyom-Primorsky-1 station, while TASS news agency said that Kim's train was headed around 250 kilometers towards the border. 
The footage shows Kim waving goodbye from his train to a Russian delegation led by Natural Resources Minister Alexander Kozlov, before the Russian march "Farewell of Slavianka" is played as the train departs. 
Earlier Sunday, TASS said Kim had been given five explosive drones, a reconnaissance drone and a bulletproof vest as gifts from a regional governor. 
TASS said the "leader of the DPRK received five kamikaze drones and a 'Geran-25' reconnaissance drone with vertical takeoff," using the official name of North Korea. 
TASS said the governor of the Primorye region, which borders China and North Korea, also "offered Kim Jong Un a set of bulletproof protection" and "special clothing not detectable by thermal cameras." 
On Saturday he met the Russian Defense Minister in Vladivostok, where he inspected state-of-the-art weapons including a hypersonic missile system. 
Kim's extended tour of Russia's far eastern region, which began on Tuesday, has focused extensively on military matters, as evidenced by his own officer-dominated entourage, a symbolic exchange of rifles with President Vladimir Putin and a tour of a fighter jet factory in Komsomolsk-on-Amur. 
Moscow is believed to be interested in buying North Korean ammunition to continue fighting in Ukraine, while Pyongyang wants Russia's help to develop its internationally condemned missile programme. 
The Kremlin has said no agreement has or will be signed. 
Kim also met with North Korean students studying in Vladivostok on Sunday. 
North Korean news agency KCNA has described the atmosphere during Kim's visit as "fervent and warm" and said a "new era of friendship, solidarity and cooperation" was opening between North Korea and Russia. 
Russia said Wednesday that another person was killed in Ukrainian attacks on its Belgorod region, as President Vladimir Putin vowed to restore security in the country's border areas. 
Ukraine has shelled the Belgorod region for months but last week stepped up attacks ahead of Russia's presidential election. 
Anti-Kremlin Russian fighters also claimed several incursions last week on Russian border regions. 
"According to preliminary information, one person died," Belgorod Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said on social media. 
"The man was in the car when it was hit by shrapnel and died of his wounds at the spot before the ambulance arrived," Gladkov said. 
At least two kindergartens and one school were also damaged in the attack, but no one was injured since authorities had earlier suspended classes until the end of the week amid ongoing cross-border strikes. 
Russia’s Defense Ministry said its air defense systems shot down 13 missiles over the Belgorod region at 11:30 a.m. Moscow time. 
The military said earlier Wednesday it had downed one drone over the Belgorod region overnight. 
In Moscow, Putin promised to restore safety in Russia's border regions and said his inevitable win in a weekend presidential vote was a "prologue" to victory in Ukraine. 
He spoke inside the Kremlin's gilded Andreyev Hall, addressing election officials after winning a fifth term in office in a vote with no genuine opposition. 
"We will do everything to support people who lost their businesses and homes, we will do everything possible," Putin said. 
"But the first thing, is of course to ensure security. There are different ways, they are not easy, but we will do them," he added, without elaborating. 
"Victory in the elections is just a prologue to those victories that Russia so badly needs and that will definitely come," Putin said, two years into the Ukraine offensive. 
He praised the "bravery of the people of Belgorod." 
Gladkov also said Wednesday that schools in some border areas would shift to remote learning, a day after saying around 9,000 children would be evacuated from the region. 
PETROZAVODSK, Russia – On a cold April morning, a closed coffin was laid to rest with military honors in the local cemetery of Petrozavodsk, a city of 235,000 people in the republic of Karelia. 
Inside the coffin lay the body of 19-year-old Russian soldier Kirill Chistyakov, one of the first to be sent by the Kremlin to invade Ukraine in 2022. 
Relatives, friends and local officials gathered to pay tribute to Chistyakov, who was killed some 1,750 kilometers from his hometown. 
For millions of Russians, the war has been far removed from everyday reality, except for those in regions neighboring Ukraine that have faced intensified cross-border shelling. 
For Chistyakov’s family — and those of at least 49,000 Russian soldiers confirmed to have been killed in the fighting — the war has changed everything. Yet even in the face of their loss, few families of slain soldiers have publicly questioned the war. 
Irina Chistyakova, the soldier's mother, broke down in tears and fell to her knees as the military guard fired three rifle volleys and local priests chanted a prayer. 
Those who came to bid farewell to Chistyakov were also crying and carrying carnations traditionally placed on graves. 
Chistyakov was buried at the Honorary Sulazhgory Cemetery among other Russian servicemen and Wagner mercenary fighters who died in the war. 
"It's painful when parents have to bury their children, especially when it happens to a young person who had so much life left to live,” Chistyakov’s friend Georgy said at the funeral. 
I'm burying him — and he was only a month younger than me.” 
Chistyakova had been desperately trying to find her son for two years after he went missing in action in the Kharkiv region village of Mala Rohan. Russian forces occupied the village for 20 days in March 2022 and used it as a military point to fire at Kharkiv city. 
While there is no public information on how Chistyakov died, Mala Rohan became a site of heavy fighting and Ukraine regained control of the village at the end of March. 
Human rights organizations that month urged an investigation into allegations of apparent abuse by Ukrainian forces against captured Russian fighters that reportedly took place in Mala Rohan. 
Since his childhood, Chistyakov had dreamed of becoming a soldier — he joined a cadet military school for boys and graduated with honors. 
When he turned 19 in 2021, Chistyakov joined the army as a conscript, fulfilling the compulsory service for military-eligible men. He had in fact signed a military contract in November of that year, his mother said, hardly expecting that he would be sent to the battlefield in three months. 
Shortly before the invasion, he told his family that he and his comrades were being sent to military drills in the Kursk region to protect the border” and that they would have no communication for around one month. 
They didn’t even know why they were going to Ukraine. They had no idea,” his mother said in an interview in 2022. 
The last time Chistyakov called his family was shortly after the start of the invasion from a Ukrainian phone number. 
Since then, Chistyakova had to search for her son both in Russian morgues and in Ukrainian captivity. She even contacted Ukrainian mothers and the Ukrainian Red Cross in search of any information she could get. 
Chistyakova spoke out about Kirill's disappearance in the media, urging the authorities to act and even appealed to President Vladimir Putin, becoming one of the leading voices among other mothers whose sons were sent to Ukraine. 
We, citizens of the Russian Federation, elected you as president so that you would keep the country in order...We elected you so that you would defend our law and the citizens of this country,” she said in her appeal. 
As part of her quest for answers, she also sifted through numerous photos of deceased soldiers and visited a military morgue in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don, helping other families to find their missing relatives. 
Eventually, she spoke with a released Russian prisoner of war who claimed that her son was being held captive in Ukraine. However, it was later discovered that the released prisoner had mistaken another man for Chistyakov. 
Chistyakov’s remains were identified as his last month through DNA testing, his mother said. 
Shortly after the start of the invasion, Putin said that only professional military personnel — officers and contract soldiers — take part in this operation. There are no conscripts, and we do not plan to do this.” 
Chistyakova believes her son was deceived” into signing his military contract. 
But despite her criticism of the Russian military and Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu for their apparent lack of help in finding her son, Chistyakova does not seem to question why the Kremlin started the war. Instead, her criticisms lie in the fact that the invasion was carried out by untrained soldiers. 
Even if such a military operation was assigned, it should involve trained individuals who have experience in conflicts such as Chechnya and Syria," Chistyakova said. 
”If such a situation has arisen and troops are being deployed, they should not include our children.” 
Russian authorities insist that they were "forced” to launch what they call a special military operation to protect the country” from Ukrainian and Western aggression. 
At the funeral ceremony in Petrozavodsk, local officials also hailed Chistyakov as a hero who died defending Russia. 
Today we are bidding farewell to a serviceman of the Russian army, Kirill Alexeievich Chistyakov, who died in the zone of the special military operation," local official Dmitry Marshenko said, standing next to the coffin at the cemetery before the burial. 
Kirill honorably fulfilled his military duty to protect the citizens of the Russian Federation and citizens of new regions from the rise of Nazism,” he added, referring to the Moscow-occupied territories of Ukraine and repeating the Kremlin's unbacked claim that Ukraine is run by Nazis. 
Chistyakov was also posthumously awarded the Order of Courage, a state decoration awarded to people who have shown dedication, courage and bravery. 
Kirill gave his life for his homeland, for his fatherland, for his people,” local military commissar Vladimir Kudrik said at the ceremony. 
The grieving mother, however, said the awards and honors will not make up for the loss of her son. 
Hell is over for me. No amount of money, no amount of medals, or anything can ever take away this pain.” 
They were able to kill my son. But they couldn’t kill his soul,” she posted. 
The war has killed hundreds of thousands, both sides included, and displaced millions of Ukrainians while plunging the rest of Europe into an energy crisis. Its environmental impacts have also been devastating, ranging from military chemical contamination and emissions to nuclear threats. In Russia, the government's swing towards totalitarianism has taken a severe toll on the climate and environmental movements. One silver lining: Europe's rush to cut historic energy ties with Russia appears to have accelerated the continent's green transition. Tune in for a special episode on this somber anniversary for a discussion between Angelina and Boris on all of the above points. 
The southern Russian city of Orenburg is expected to face major flooding in the next 24 hours as water levels in the nearby Ural River continue to rise, local authorities said Thursday, urging residents in impacted areas to evacuate. 
I think [water levels] will peak in Orenburg within a day, followed by a plateau and a decrease,” Orenburg region Governor Denis Pasler told reporters. All the necessary work is being carried out. Now the focus is on monitoring several points where the most difficult situation is being observed.” 
Russia’s Orenburg region has been grappling with its worst flooding in decades, with dozens of cities and towns fully or partially submerged, after a protective dam burst late Friday near the city of Orsk. 
In the regional capital of Orenburg, which has a population of about 550,000 people, the river embankment, several neighborhoods and some surrounding settlements have been underwater since late last week. 
The Ural River in Orenburg rose by 82 centimeters on Thursday morning, reaching 10.6 meters in height, which according to a local meteorological center is 1.3 meters above critical levels. Officials said the city has not seen flooding on that scale since at least 1947, calling the rising water completely unprecedented.” 
I once again urge residents of flooded areas not to sit and wait for a critical situation, but evacuate from the danger zone as soon as possible,” Orenburg Mayor Sergei Salmin said. 
Fast-melting snow and ice have caused rivers in Russia’s southern Urals, western Siberia as well as northern Kazakhstan to reach unprecedented levels. 
Russian authorities say they have evacuated more than 7,700 people, mostly from the worst-hit Orenburg region, while Kazakhstan said around 100,000 of its citizens had been evacuated as of Wednesday. Russia estimates that 10,500 homes were flooded across 37 regions. 
Later on Thursday, Russian President Vladimir Putin held a virtual meeting on flood relief efforts with top government officials and the governors of the three most impacted regions, including Orenburg’s Pasler. 
We’re in touch almost every day, but the situation changes hourly, so I’d first like to ask the governors to report on how you assess the situation,” Putin said during the meeting. 
Pasler told the president that the Ural River had reached an all-time” high of 10.87 meters. He also estimated that the floods have already caused 40 billion rubles ($429 million) in damages in just the Orenburg region, which is double the estimate given by Russia’s Construction Ministry over the weekend. 
Orthodox Icons and Soviet Nostalgia Go on Display at 49th Russian Antique Salon 
Nov 24, 2023 - 07:14 pm 
The 49th Russian Antique Salon, the country's largest antiques fair, has opened at the Gostiny Dvor exposition center in central Moscow. Since its founding in 1996, the Russian Antique Salon has hosted 7,000 galleries and private collections and been visited by more than 1.5 million people. Until November 26, visitors can peruse modern and antique art, jewelry, furnishings, cars, and more at the 82,000-square-meter expo center: 
Designer matryoshka dolls at the 49th Russian Antique Salon in Moscow, which will run for five days until Nov. 26. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
A carpet depicting President Vladimir Putin in the style of Andy Warhol's portraits, made by Russian designer carpet factory Imperial-Style. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
A woman walks past a carpet depicting the Soviet hammer and sickle emblem made by Imperial-Style. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
A woman looks at an art exhibit at the salon, set up by one of over 250 participating exhibitors. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
Salon attendees near an Andy Warhol-style carpet depicting President Putin. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
Imperial-Style carpet factory owner Grigory Skvortsov poses in between works from his company. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
Salon attendees look at items including several carpets depicting Vladimir Lenin. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
A room full of Orthodox icons at the salon. 
Natalia Kolesnikova / AFP 
Antique weapons and a sculpture of Stalin with children at the salon, which at least 41,000 people are expected to visit. 
AMSTERDAM — A live event headlined by two Russian television celebrities has sparked controversy in the Netherlands, with critics decrying the presence of what they call Russian propagandists on European stages during Moscow’s war on Ukraine. 
Veteran Channel One host Vladimir Pozner and late-night talk show host Ivan Urgant’s European tour, called The Travels of Pozner and Urgant,” kicked off in Amsterdam on Tuesday and will be followed by stops in Zurich, Berlin and Frankfurt. 
The show is described as an evening with the two men, who co-hosted several travel shows, as they reflect on stories from their trips around the world. 
Though billed as an apolitical event, politics has overshadowed much of the discussion surrounding it. 
Critics have slammed the Amsterdam theater for hosting Russian propagandists” and allowing them to profit by performing in Europe, calling it a stab in the back” of the tens of thousands of Ukrainians who fled to the Netherlands because of Moscow’s invasion. 
Others say that banning events based on politics would be stooping to the level of the Kremlin, which has silenced independent journalists, activists and artists inside Russia. 
Around 25 protesters, several of whom wore Ukrainian flags around their shoulders, stood outside Theater Amsterdam in the rain as attendees arrived, shouting slogans like Shame on you,” Russians go home,” Russia is a terrorist state” and Russian propaganda kills.” 
I think you can hear why,” said Anna, a young woman from Ukraine who has been living in the Netherlands for two years, when asked why she was at the protest. 
We have to stop… Russian propaganda because it's dangerous,” she said. It's important not only for Ukraine, but it's important for everybody. Because it's a really abusive country.” 
In the theater lobby before the sold-out show, some attendees took photos of protesters through the glass windows. Others could be heard discussing the news over glasses of sparkling wine. 
I was surprised at how our [fellow attendees] reacted — they looked away [from the protesters]. I looked right at them,” said Alisa, a Russian emigre who was going to the show with her friend. 
Many of the people who came to the show do not support the war, and we have a negative view of the war, of course,” she said. The aggression in the crowd was frightening. We had fingers pointed at us and such. It's good that there are police here.” 
On the first day of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Urgant, who is often likened to U.S. late-night talk show host Jimmy Kimmel, posted a black square to his Instagram account with the caption Fear and pain. No to war.” 
Although his show was taken off the air almost immediately afterward, he has since remained silent about the war. He did not respond to The Moscow Times’ request for comment. 
Pozner, meanwhile, rose to fame in the West during the Cold War for his television appearances where he would explain the Soviet Union’s views and policies, a role he would later describe as propaganda.” 
His interview show on Channel One, which was watched by millions and often compared to Larry King Live,” stopped airing after the invasion of Ukraine. He later said this was a move by the channel to make room for coverage of the war. 
In a 2016 debate with Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny, Pozner said: Yes, censorship exists [in Russia]. And I accepted it. I could have slammed the door [closed the show] and done nothing at all. But I believe that I am doing something useful for society. I'm making people think.” 
Though he has neither criticized nor supported the war in public, Pozner has suggested that the West bore responsibility for Moscow’s invasion because it refused Russia’s demand to block Ukraine’s path to NATO membership. 
When asked about the protesters outside the venue, Pozner told The Moscow Times that it was their right” to express their opinion but declined to comment further. 
Theater Amsterdam declined to comment for this story, instead referring The Moscow Times to a May 24 statement published on its LinkedIn page. 
In its statement, the theater said it stands for freedom of speech, creative expression and a safe environment for everyone who embraces the arts.” 
These performers have indicated that their program has nothing to do with the war and want to share their performance in an atmosphere of peace and freedom,” the theater said, noting that its staff had received threats and intimidation over the event. 
Inside the theater sat Olga — a woman from Lviv, a Ukrainian city near the Polish border described by the Kremlin and Russian propagandists as an alleged hub of Russophobia” — who moved to Amsterdam because of the war. 
Speaking in Russian, she told The Moscow Times that she felt embarrassed” to be at the event. 
I've been following Urgant and Pozner for about 15 years and I wanted to see them in person,” she said. 
Only here did I find out that Pozner supported the war,” she continued. If I had known [beforehand], there's no way I would have come.” 
In this episode we look into the impact of China’s oil and gas ventures in Central Asia. What?” I hear you ask. I thought China was going green and aiming to reach net-zero before 2060?” Take a listen to find out more about the latest on the impact that China National Petroleum Corporation’s is having on Kazakhstan. We’ll also be bringing you the latest climate headlines from our region at the end of the episode. 
Amid sharply rising prices, inflation at 12.7% and disruption to supply chains due to Western sanctions, around 35% of Russian citizens say they are trying to reduce the cost of their weekly food shop, according to a survey published on Monday. 
Of those who said they were trying to save money on food, 69% also told Russia’s state-funded pollster VTsIOM that they were in a difficult financial position. 
Some 32% of those who responded to the poll also admitted that they had started spending less on beauty salons and cosmetics, the survey said. 
According to the national statistics agency, Rosstat, around 43.2% of Russians have an income of under 27,000 rubles ($441) per month, while roughly a quarter of the population earns less than 19,000 rubles ($309) per month. 
Amid the ongoing war in Ukraine and Western sanctions, the country’s economy has entered a recession as gross domestic output fell by 4% in the third quarter, Rosstat said in its report published earlier this month. 
Despite its contracting economy, Russia's unemployment rate stood at 3.9% in September, according to Rosstat. 
In this episode, we focus on Russia's current reliance on coal, less than a day after G20 countries failed to reach an agreement to phase out the fuel. Angelina Davydova and Boris Schneider talk to Russian climate policy expert Anna Korppoo, a research professor at Norway’s Fridtjof Nansen Institute. 
The swelling Tom River in southwestern Siberia has led to a partial dam collapse in the city of Tomsk, authorities said Monday. 
The water has partially destroyed the protective dam,” Tomsk Mayor Dmitry Makhinya said in a video posted on social media that shows him surveying the damage. 
Spring flooding caused by melting ice is a regular occurrence in some parts of Russia, but this year’s heavy rainfall, combined with abnormally warm spring weather, has led to severe flooding in Russia’s Urals and western Siberia. 
So far, the floods have submerged around 15,600 homes and 28,000 land plots in 193 Russian towns and cities across 33 regions, state-run media reported on Monday. Almost 200 houses near Tomsk were under water as of Monday morning and 84 people were evacuated. 
The Tom River, which stretches 827 kilometers, could reach a dangerous height of 8.9 meters between Monday and Wednesday, the Tomsk regional government said. Emergency officials have carried out ice blasting — a process by which explosives are used to break up ice — in the Tom River over the weekend to prevent flooding caused by ice jams. 
Mayor Makhinya criticized Tomsk residents who were seen gathering at the city’s damaged embankment to watch the annual ice drift. 
Think about your safety, don’t go to the dam now, don’t hang down from the bridge parapet in pursuit of good shots,” he wrote on the Russian social network VKontakte. Disaster is not entertainment!” 
The swelling Tom River in southwestern Siberia has led to a partial dam collapse in the city of Tomsk, authorities said Monday, as other nearby regions continue to battle unprecedented flooding. 
Meanwhile, almost 13,000 people have been evacuated from the Kurgan region near Kazakhstan in anticipation of flooding there, the governor’s office told the state-run news agency TASS on Monday. 
Kurgan region Governor Vadim Shumkov said a colossal” amount of water was headed toward the region’s capital city. 
The Kremlin said emergency officials expect floodwater levels to increase in the Kurgan and the neighboring Tyumen regions by mid-week. 
Russian Emergency Situations Minister Alexander Kurenkov on Monday arrived in the city of Orsk, the original epicenter of flooding in the Orenburg region, where water levels peaked over the weekend and are expected to recede early this week. 
I don’t know if I want to know the names of everything because I like languages, or if I like languages because I want to know the names of everything. But I suppose it doesn’t matter. In any case, I get double — or is it quadruple? — pleasure every time I find out the name of something in Russian — the more obscure, the better — and then find out what it is called in English. Or the other way around. 
Take, for example, those beautiful giants holding up the New Hermitage gallery in St. Petersburg. I knew that a stone woman on a building is called кариатида (caryatid), but what is a stone man called? In Russian he is атлант. In English he is an atlas or atlant (also spelled atlante) or even atlantid (plural — atlantes). The Roman term is a telamon (telamones or telamons in plural). 
An atlas is usually full-figure and takes the place of a pillar. A small, partial male figure is called терм (term), which must not be confused with термы (plural). Those are thermal baths. 
Now isn’t that satisfying? 
Then the other day I learned a new word: беруши (earplugs). The word has a charming origin: it is a short version of берегите уши (protect your ears!). I’d never heard that term before; I just called them затычки (plugs). 
But it turns out, for some reason, Russian has lots of words for earplugs. 
The phrase I know — затычка для ушей (earplugs) — is a techno version of what you do when there is a loud noise, sometimes one you are making yourself, if you are two years old and very tired: Он будет затыкать уши, плакать и кричать (He’ll cover his ears, cry and scream). It comes from the verb затыкать, which is used when plugging up just about anything. Уже больше года ванной не пользовались, вставали под душ, не затыкая ванны затычкой (For more than a year they didn’t use the bathtub, they stood under the shower and didn’t stop up the tub with a plug). Затыкал носками щели в оконных рамах (He plugged up the cracks in the window frames with socks). Sometimes the plugging is literal and violent: Их хватали, выкручивали руки, затыкали рот (They grabbed them, twisted their arms and gagged them). 
But with ears, затычки are not violent. It’s the word often heard poolside to describe plugs that keep water out. For athletes who flip, twist, and turn as they fly down to the water from a high diving board, there is модель для дайвинга, которая стабилизирует давление при глубоком погружении (a model for diving that is stabilizes pressure when the swimmer goes deep under water). 
But if you don’t like any of those words, an earplug in Russian is also called ушная заглушка, from the verb заглушать, which means to silence, drown out (sound), jam or mute. The verb can be used literally or figuratively: Членам Совета не следует заглушать голоса несогласных (Council members should not silence voices of dissent). 
But that’s not all. An earplug is also ушной тампон (ear pad), a phrase that English speakers will never use; противошумовое средство (anti-noise device), also противошум [anti-noise] for short). It can be противошумный or ушной вкладыш (anti-noise or ear plug); or even пробочка для предохранения ушей (a plug to protect ears). 
Now that you know how to block sound, how do you listen to it? With наушники (earphones), of course, which are literally things you put on your ears.” Наушники is the general term for anything that you put on or in your ears to listen to music, words, or even yourself if you are on stage and performing. 
The new kind — earbuds — have lots of names in Russian, depending on shape. The kind like hard discs that don’t go all the way in the ear are called наушники-капельки (drop earbuds); наушники-пуговки (button earbuds); or наушники-таблетки (tablet earbuds). These are also called наушники-вкладыши from the verb вкладывать, which means to insert, put in. 
The kind of earphone that goes all the way in your ear, aka IEMs (in ear monitors), are called внутриканальные наушники (literally inner-canal earphones). Since these fit into your ear in a different way, they are described differently. In literature and sales brochures, these are called наушники-затычки and наушники-заглушки, but in conversations when people are talking about listening to music or podcasts, the наушники part gets left out. You need to pay attention to figure out if a person is talking about shutting out the sound or listening to it. 
And while we’re here, you know those little rubber tips that constantly fall off and disappear in the crevasse between the chair back and seat — always in airplanes? They’re called амбушюры (tips, cups, caps, or pads), singular —амбушюр. This is from the French word embouchure. 
By the way, when people are playing music rather than listening to it, амбушюр means either the mouthpiece of a musical instrument or the way a musician holds his or her mouth to play a brass or wind instrument. 
And then, as we continue down this rabbit hole, there is another kind of earplug: вкладыш на дужке. What’s дужка? It’s the diminutive of дуга, which is any kind of hoop or arc. So вкладыш на дужке are earplugs attached to a headband. 
Дужка is a word worth knowing, since it comes in handy — almost literally. For example, дужка ведра is the handle of a bucket. Дужка замка is the shackle of a lock. Дужка очков is the temple on a pair of glasses. And дужка at the dinner table is what you and your brothers and sisters used to fight over – it’s the wishbone. 
So we started with earplugs and ended with locks, buckets and wishbones. To be filed under unnecessary knowledge” – until your next chicken dinner. 
— The leaders of Russia and Turkey meet in Moscow on Thursday in a bid to de-escalate fighting in Syria which has brought the two countries to the brink of direct military confrontation. It is the latest episode in a fraught nine-year civil war that has killed hundreds of thousands, created millions of refugees and reshaped geopolitics in the Middle East. Financial Times Bureau Chief Henry Foy joins us in the studio to discuss what is at stake for both countries. 
— Following Super Tuesday in the United States, it is shaping up to be a two-way fight between Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders and former vice president Joe Biden to secure the Democratic nomination and go head-to-head with Donald Trump in the 2020 presidential election. On the line to discuss where the candidates sit on Russia, journalist Ben Judah, author of Fragile Empire: How Russia fell In and Out of Love with Vladimir Putin”, and who is now on the campaign trail in the U.S. reporting on Bernie Sanders’ bid for the White House. 
From Russia With News is hosted by Jake Cordell and produced by Pjotr Sauer. The episode was recorded and edited at CM Records Studio in central Moscow. 
A powerful dust storm swept through the Siberian city of Irkutsk on Tuesday, with local authorities reporting damage to buildings and a local energy provider shutting down power lines as a safety precaution. 
Irkutsk was hit by inclement weather, the wind speed has reached 28 meters per second,” Irkutsk Mayor Ruslan Bolotov said in an emergency statement shared on the the messaging app Telegram. 
Videos posted online showed strong winds and dust engulfing city streets and residential courtyards, dramatically reducing visibility and creating dangerous conditions for motorists. 
There are reports of fallen branches, construction fences, billboards,” Bolotov said, adding that property owners and municipal workers were responding to messages about damage caused by the storm. 
At least two city neighborhoods and several nearby settlements temporarily shut down power lines as a safety precaution, the local energy provider said in a statement. 
Emergency services urged residents to stay indoors during the dust storm. No one was reported to have been injured. 
The Irkutsk region’s weather center said wind gusts were expected to continue and could reach up to 20 meters per second by Wednesday. 
On March 17, Putin is set to be elected president of Russia for yet another six years in office, despite launching a devastating war against Ukraine and letting opposition politician Alexei Navalny die in prison. 
Since coming to power in 2000, Putin has ruled the country in an increasingly authoritarian way. Elections in Russia have since become a farce, a kind of political theatre or circus that has little to do with democracy. How did this come about? When was democracy lost in Russia — or was it perhaps an empty letter from the very start? What purposes do elections serve in Russia's political system if not the election of the country's leaders? 
In a joint event, the International Institute of Social History and The Moscow Times reflected on Russia's presidential elections, past, present and future. 
With presentations by IISH researcher Gijs Kessler and TV Rain presenter Mikhail Fishman, followed by a panel discussion with Moscow Times editor-in-chief Samantha Berkhead, Moscow Times publisher Alexander Gubsky, and Free Russia NL board member Kristina Petrasova. 
This lecture at the International Institute of Social History is part of a series of talks by media professionals and experts on Russia organized by The Moscow Times at leading universities and research centers around the world. 
President Vladimir Putin is extremely sensitive to disloyalty and prone to looking for traitors everywhere. Knowing this, it is easy to assume that the Russian president had a solid motive to eliminate the leader of the Wagner Group, who dared to challenge the Kremlin in an armed revolt. 
However, if we keep focusing on Yevgeny Prigozhin personally and on Putin’s vindictiveness, we risk overlooking the fact that the problem Putin faces is not limited to a single rebellious former restaurateur and thus cannot be solved by assassination alone. 
In the wake of Prigozhin’s revolt in June, it became clear that the Russian autocrat would have to cope not just with one eccentric warlord and his mercenaries. He instead has to find a way to deal with a fairly broad group of people who are in favor of tougher policies and a more aggressive military campaign in Ukraine. 
Prigozhin in many ways emerged as a prominent spokesperson for this group. In his public statements, he vehemently lashed out against the Russian bureaucracy for insufficient patriotism and insisted on the need for a total mobilization of the country, the complete militarization of the economy, and directing the assets and business practices of the elites toward a national goal. 
After the Wagner mutiny, Putin had the option of gaining the backing of supporters of total mobilization by becoming more Prigozhinized” himself. He could adopt more uncompromising rhetoric, change his political course toward the complete militarization of the country, and launch a campaign of repression against an unpatriotic part of the elite. 
However, it seems that Putin is trying to avoid this strategy. The war remains a "special operation," there are no large-scale repressions against the traitors among the elite, and the Russian people are promised that there will be no new military call-up. 
At the same time, the most prominent figures associated with the "total mobilization party" are being systematically eliminated from the public sphere. The crash of the airplane, presumably carrying Prigozhin, is not the first event in this series. 
Just a day before the crash, it became known that General Sergei Surovikin had been dismissed from his post as commander-in-chief of the Russian Aerospace Forces. Surovikin is known to have had good relations with Prigozhin. Moreover, just like the Wagner leader, he had tense relationships with Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and the head of the General Staff, Valery Gerasimov. According to some reports, after the Wagner mutiny in June, Surovikin was arrested. Igor Girkin, another prominent figure in the camp of supporters of total mobilization, was also repressed. Although Prigozhin and Girkin were in conflict, less than a month after Prigozhin's mercenaries marched on Moscow, the leader of the Club of Angry Patriots found himself behind bars. 
All these events are not just the aftermath of the Prigozhin revolt. They are also symptoms of an ongoing struggle. Although no one is marching on Moscow now, Putin is still under pressure from the part of the elite that is unhappy with the way he is conducting the war. 
Just three days before Prigozhin’s plane crash, Bloomberg reported that some members of Russia’s intelligence services were calling on Putin to fire Shoigu and Gerasimov. They also wanted him to switch to a more aggressive approach to warfare, to launch a full-scale mobilization, and to declare martial law. 
Moreover, it is not just about the Russian elite. There is also a noticeable group in Russian society who can be considered supporters of total militarization, and "nationalization" of the elites. In particular, polling by Russian Field shows that 20% of Russian respondents sympathized with Prigozhin even after his mutiny failed. 
Moreover, according to the Chronicles project, 22% of Russian poll respondents can be considered core supporters of the war. These are the people who not only say they support the special military operation,” but also believe that the withdrawal of troops from Ukraine should occur only after the goals of the war have been achieved, and believe that government spending should prioritize the army. It is these people who are likely the ones most receptive to Prigozhin and Girkin-style rhetoric about the total militarization of Russian society. 
Putin, however, is not making earnest attempts to win back these so-called turbo patriots.” Instead, he seeks to suppress the loudest voices from their camp. 
In this context, it is not so important whether Prigozhin really died in the plane crash. Moreover, it is arguably not that significant whether it was, in fact, orchestrated by Putin. What matters is that the event is likely to be perceived as Putin’s revenge on Prigozhin. 
As a result, all sorts of "angry patriots" are likely to take Prigozhin’s plane crash as a signal that Putin is ready to deal harshly not only with the liberal anti-war opposition, but also with those militant supporters of the war who think he is not decisive and tough enough. At the same time, it is clear that Putin is still trying to get out of the Wagner crisis while still acting half-heartedly and ambiguously. So, the rebel leader was assassinated. Or, maybe not. The mutineers' main ally among the army leaders was arrested. Or, maybe not. Everything seems to be in preparation for a large-scale military mobilization. But, at the same time, there is a plan to avoid bad news in the run-up to the 2024 presidential election. Thus, the overall outcome of the two months since the Wagner mutiny is that even though Prigozhin has already lost, Putin is still struggling to win. 
The Russian leader turned out to be unable to address some of the fundamental underlying causes that sparked the Wagner crisis. He failed to deal with Prigozhinism in the minds of the people and in the ranks of his own elite. Neither did he sufficiently "Prigozhinize" his own policies and rhetoric by taking a more uncompromising approach to winning the war. After Prigozhin’s plane crashed, Putin will be believed by many to have demonstrated toughness. However, his more belligerent opponents will likely think that his willpower is aimed primarily at protecting his persistent weakness, indecisiveness, and half-heartedness. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Privacy Policy 
Last updated: December 07, 2021 
This Privacy Policy describes Our policies and procedures on the collection, use and disclosure of Your information when You use the Service and tells You about Your privacy rights and how the law protects You. 
We use Your Personal data to provide and improve the Service. By using the Service, You agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this Privacy Policy. This Privacy Policy has been created with the help of the Privacy Policy Generator. 
Interpretation and Definitions 
Interpretation 
The words of which the initial letter is capitalized have meanings defined under the following conditions. The following definitions shall have the same meaning regardless of whether they appear in singular or in plural. 
Definitions 
For the purposes of this Privacy Policy: 
Account means a unique account created for You to access our Service or parts of our Service. 
Company (referred to as either "the Company", "We", "Us" or "Our" in this Agreement) refers to The Moscow Times , Leningradskiy Prospekt 39 Khoroshyovsky Moscow, 125167 Russia. 
Cookies are small files that are placed on Your computer, mobile device or any other device by a website, containing the details of Your browsing history on that website among its many uses. 
Country refers to: Russia 
Device means any device that can access the Service such as a computer, a cellphone or a digital tablet. 
Personal Data is any information that relates to an identified or identifiable individual. 
Service refers to the Website. 
Service Provider means any natural or legal person who processes the data on behalf of the Company. It refers to third-party companies or individuals employed by the Company to facilitate the Service, to provide the Service on behalf of the Company, to perform services related to the Service or to assist the Company in analyzing how the Service is used. 
Usage Data refers to data collected automatically, either generated by the use of the Service or from the Service infrastructure itself (for example, the duration of a page visit). 
You means the individual accessing or using the Service, or the company, or other legal entity on behalf of which such individual is accessing or using the Service, as applicable. 
Collecting and Using Your Personal Data 
Types of Data Collected 
Personal Data 
While using Our Service, We may ask You to provide Us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify You. Personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to: 
Telephone number 
Country, city 
Usage Data 
Usage Data is collected automatically when using the Service. 
Usage Data may include information such as Your Device's Internet Protocol address (e.g. IP address), browser type, browser version, the pages of our Service that You visit, the time and date of Your visit, the time spent on those pages, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data. 
When You access the Service by or through a mobile device, We may collect certain information automatically, including, but not limited to, the type of mobile device You use, Your mobile device unique ID, the IP address of Your mobile device, Your mobile operating system, the type of mobile Internet browser You use, unique device identifiers and other diagnostic data. 
We may also collect information that Your browser sends whenever You visit our Service or when You access the Service by or through a mobile device. 
Tracking Technologies and Cookies 
We use Cookies and similar tracking technologies to track the activity on Our Service and store certain information. Tracking technologies used are beacons, tags, and scripts to collect and track information and to improve and analyze Our Service. The technologies We use may include: 
Cookies or Browser Cookies. A cookie is a small file placed on Your Device. You can instruct Your browser to refuse all Cookies or to indicate when a Cookie is being sent. However, if You do not accept Cookies, You may not be able to use some parts of our Service. Unless you have adjusted Your browser setting so that it will refuse Cookies, our Service may use Cookies. 
Web Beacons. Certain sections of our Service and our emails may contain small electronic files known as web beacons (also referred to as clear gifs, pixel tags, and single-pixel gifs) that permit the Company, for example, to count users who have visited those pages or opened an email and for other related website statistics (for example, recording the popularity of a certain section and verifying system and server integrity). 
Cookies can be "Persistent" or "Session" Cookies. Persistent Cookies remain on Your personal computer or mobile device when You go offline, while Session Cookies are deleted as soon as You close Your web browser. Learn more about cookies: Cookies by PrivacyPolicies Generator. 
We use both Session and Persistent Cookies for the purposes set out below: 
Necessary / Essential Cookies Type: Session Cookies Administered by: Us Purpose: These Cookies are essential to provide You with services available through the Website and to enable You to use some of its features. They help to authenticate users and prevent fraudulent use of user accounts. Without these Cookies, the services that You have asked for cannot be provided, and We only use these Cookies to provide You with those services. 
Cookies Policy / Notice Acceptance Cookies Type: Persistent Cookies Administered by: Us Purpose: These Cookies identify if users have accepted the use of cookies on the Website. 
Functionality Cookies Type: Persistent Cookies Administered by: Us Purpose: These Cookies allow us to remember choices You make when You use the Website, such as remembering your login details or language preference. The purpose of these Cookies is to provide You with a more personal experience and to avoid You having to re-enter your preferences every time You use the Website. 
For more information about the cookies we use and your choices regarding cookies, please visit our Cookies Policy or the Cookies section of our Privacy Policy. 
Use of Your Personal Data 
The Company may use Personal Data for the following purposes: 
To provide and maintain our Service, including to monitor the usage of our Service. 
To manage Your Account: to manage Your registration as a user of the Service. The Personal Data You provide can give You access to different functionalities of the Service that are available to You as a registered user. 
For the performance of a contract: the development, compliance and undertaking of the purchase contract for the products, items or services You have purchased or of any other contract with Us through the Service. 
To contact You: To contact You by email, telephone calls, SMS, or other equivalent forms of electronic communication, such as a mobile application's push notifications regarding updates or informative communications related to the functionalities, products or contracted services, including the security updates, when necessary or reasonable for their implementation. 
To provide You with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless You have opted not to receive such information. 
To manage Your requests: To attend and manage Your requests to Us. 
For business transfers: We may use Your information to evaluate or conduct a merger, divestiture, restructuring, reorganization, dissolution, or other sale or transfer of some or all of Our assets, whether as a going concern or as part of bankruptcy, liquidation, or similar proceeding, in which Personal Data held by Us about our Service users is among the assets transferred. 
For other purposes: We may use Your information for other purposes, such as data analysis, identifying usage trends, determining the effectiveness of our promotional campaigns and to evaluate and improve our Service, products, services, marketing and your experience. 
We may share Your personal information in the following situations: 
With Service Providers: We may share Your personal information with Service Providers to monitor and analyze the use of our Service, to contact You. 
For business transfers: We may share or transfer Your personal information in connection with, or during negotiations of, any merger, sale of Company assets, financing, or acquisition of all or a portion of Our business to another company. 
With Affiliates: We may share Your information with Our affiliates, in which case we will require those affiliates to honor this Privacy Policy. Affiliates include Our parent company and any other subsidiaries, joint venture partners or other companies that We control or that are under common control with Us. 
With business partners: We may share Your information with Our business partners to offer You certain products, services or promotions. 
With other users: when You share personal information or otherwise interact in the public areas with other users, such information may be viewed by all users and may be publicly distributed outside. 
With Your consent: We may disclose Your personal information for any other purpose with Your consent. 
Retention of Your Personal Data 
The Company will retain Your Personal Data only for as long as is necessary for the purposes set out in this Privacy Policy. We will retain and use Your Personal Data to the extent necessary to comply with our legal obligations (for example, if we are required to retain your data to comply with applicable laws), resolve disputes, and enforce our legal agreements and policies. 
The Company will also retain Usage Data for internal analysis purposes. Usage Data is generally retained for a shorter period of time, except when this data is used to strengthen the security or to improve the functionality of Our Service, or We are legally obligated to retain this data for longer time periods. 
Transfer of Your Personal Data 
Your information, including Personal Data, is processed at the Company's operating offices and in any other places where the parties involved in the processing are located. It means that this information may be transferred to — and maintained on — computers located outside of Your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ than those from Your jurisdiction. 
Your consent to this Privacy Policy followed by Your submission of such information represents Your agreement to that transfer. 
The Company will take all steps reasonably necessary to ensure that Your data is treated securely and in accordance with this Privacy Policy and no transfer of Your Personal Data will take place to an organization or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of Your data and other personal information. 
Disclosure of Your Personal Data 
Business Transactions 
If the Company is involved in a merger, acquisition or asset sale, Your Personal Data may be transferred. We will provide notice before Your Personal Data is transferred and becomes subject to a different Privacy Policy. 
Law enforcement 
Under certain circumstances, the Company may be required to disclose Your Personal Data if required to do so by law or in response to valid requests by public authorities (e.g. a court or a government agency). 
Other legal requirements 
The Company may disclose Your Personal Data in the good faith belief that such action is necessary to: 
Comply with a legal obligation 
Protect and defend the rights or property of the Company 
Prevent or investigate possible wrongdoing in connection with the Service 
Protect the personal safety of Users of the Service or the public 
Protect against legal liability 
Security of Your Personal Data 
The security of Your Personal Data is important to Us, but remember that no method of transmission over the Internet, or method of electronic storage is 100% secure. While We strive to use commercially acceptable means to protect Your Personal Data, We cannot guarantee its absolute security. 
Children's Privacy 
Our Service does not address anyone under the age of 13. We do not knowingly collect personally identifiable information from anyone under the age of 13. If You are a parent or guardian and You are aware that Your child has provided Us with Personal Data, please contact Us. If We become aware that We have collected Personal Data from anyone under the age of 13 without verification of parental consent, We take steps to remove that information from Our servers. 
If We need to rely on consent as a legal basis for processing Your information and Your country requires consent from a parent, We may require Your parent's consent before We collect and use that information. 
Links to Other Websites 
Our Service may contain links to other websites that are not operated by Us. If You click on a third party link, You will be directed to that third party's site. We strongly advise You to review the Privacy Policy of every site You visit. 
We have no control over and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services. 
This Site is affiliated with Publisher First, Inc. dba Freestar ("Freestar") for the purposes of placing certain advertising on the Site, and Freestar will collect and use certain data for advertising purposes. To learn more about Freestar’s data usage, click here. 
Changes to this Privacy Policy 
We may update Our Privacy Policy from time to time. We will notify You of any changes by posting the new Privacy Policy on this page. 
We will let You know via email and/or a prominent notice on Our Service, prior to the change becoming effective and update the "Last updated" date at the top of this Privacy Policy. 
You are advised to review this Privacy Policy periodically for any changes. Changes to this Privacy Policy are effective when they are posted on this page. 
Contact Us 
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, You can contact us: 
Russian officials and pro-war activists have slammed a star-studded almost naked” party hosted by media personality Anastasia Ivleeva for going against the country’s conservative values. 
Footage from the party at Mutabor, a popular Moscow nightclub, on Wednesday showed scantily clad pop stars Filipp Kirkorov, Lolita and Dima Bilan, as well as TV host and 2018 presidential candidate Ksenia Sobchak, among others. 
Yekaterina Mizulina, the head of the Safe Internet League, a Kremlin-aligned pressure group advocating stricter rules on what can be said and done online, called for a boycott of the attendees. 
Such hangouts are a shot in the foot of the entire policy pursued by the state,” Mizulina wrote on the Telegram messaging app Thursday. [The partygoers] live in a different world than the rest of the country.” 
These people should be boycotted at the state level,” she said. 
State Duma lawmaker Dmitry Gusev called on state broadcasters to cut those who attended Ivleeva’s almost naked” party from their pre-recorded New Year’s Eve shows. 
If their performances are impossible to delete, alter their images and voices,” Gusev wrote in a letter shared by the Telegram news channel Baza. 
His colleague Maria Butina, who served a short prison stint in the United States for acting as an unregistered foreign agent, went further, urging police to investigate whether the party violated Russia’s gay propaganda” law and President Vladimir Putin’s 2022 decree on traditional Russian spiritual and moral values.” 
Nina Ostanina, who heads the Duma’s committee on family protection, issued a similar call for the Prosecutor General’s Office to prosecute the attendees for what she described as a feast during the plague… regardless of their [celebrity] status.” 
Police raided Mutabor on the second day of Ivleeva’s almost naked” party that was open to the public. Baza reported the event was allowed to proceed an hour later than scheduled and noted that guests were way more dressed” than the previous day. 
Ivleeva herself mocked the criticisms, saying with sarcasm that she loves it” when this country, this world is not accepting of each other.” 
We look to the beautiful, slender Western models and say ‘Gosh, they’re so beautiful, they’re so cool.’ When our beautiful and fit artists come out, everyone’s like: ‘F*ck, how can they do that? Pop music has gone downhill’,” Ivleeva said. 
On Friday, a Moscow court jailed Yekaterinburg rapper Nikolai Vasilyev, who performs under the name VACÍO, for 15 days on charges of petty hooliganism and fined him 200,000 rubles ($2,100) for gay propaganda.” 
He was seen at the party wearing only sneakers and a sock covering his genitalia. 
F*ck it I’ll work out [and] read some books haha peace to all,” Vasilyev wrote on his Telegram channel, confirming the verdict. 
Later on Friday, Vasilyev appeared in a video published by the state-run RIA Novosti news agency apologizing for his alleged support of the LGBT community. 
I don’t support the LGBT community in any way. I didn’t intend to promote any propaganda. I condemn supporters of the LGBT movement,” Vasilyev said. 
RIA Novosti also released another version of his apology in which Vasilyev added that he apologized for offending the feelings of many people during such a difficult time for our country.” 
After living for two weeks in a psycho-neurological internat, a facility where Russia confines those with psychiatric illnesses who have no relatives willing to care for them, journalist Elena Kostyuchenko believed she had seen the real face of my state.” 
She spoke to women who were forcibly sterilized, showed a doctor poetry written by a patient in an attempt to demonstrate the patient was not in the vegetative” state their medical records claimed, and watched as female residents scrambled for their daily allocation of cigarettes. 
When human connection is lost, all that is left is the state,” Kostyuchenko writes. My state is the internat. Not the Sputnik V vaccine, not the Olympics, not space shuttles.” 
Kostyuchenko’s account of her stay in the internat provides the material for one of the chapters in her memoir-cum-essay collection titled I Love Russia,” which has been elegantly translated by Ilona Yazhbin Chavasse and Bela Shayevich. It has been shortlisted for the 2023 Pushkin House Book Prize. 
The many other topics explored by Kostyuchenko include rural poverty, environmental disaster, prostitution, the high suicide rates that blight Russia’s ethnic minorities, homophobia, terrorism, human rights abuses, and, perhaps most graphically, the war in Ukraine. 
But the big question to which I Love Russia” provides helps provide some answers is why Kostyuchenko’s homeland has descended into full-blown authoritarianism – she calls it fascism” – and why it is prosecuting such a terrible war on neighboring Ukraine. 
In her 17 years working as a reporter at independent media outlet Novaya Gazeta, Kostyuchenko has had a ringside seat to witness this transformation. She has written many articles on the power of the state, and the Kremlin’s indifference to human life. She’s documented official brutality on dozens of occasions. As a gay woman, she has even herself been on the receiving end of violence, for example when she was assaulted at LGBTQ rights protests in Moscow. 
Kostyuchenko has been unable to return to Russia since she left the country in 2022 to travel to Ukraine to report on the full-scale invasion. 
But even in exile in Germany, she has not been safe. She was likely the victim of an attempted poisoning last year that left her unable to work for many months. 
Kostyuchenko will join 23 other journalists for a fellowship program at Harvard University in the fall, where she will teach students and study postcolonialism and folklore, as well as conducting research on death and trauma. 
Throughout I Love Russia,” Kostyuchenko chronicles the dark heart of President Vladimir Putin’s Russia. And it is a task she accomplishes in unflinching, gut-wrenching detail. 
In one chapter, the reader meets a 17-year-old prostitute, Laila, working on the outskirts of Moscow, who says she can have sex with 17 men in one night. 
In another, Kostyuchenko describes the bodies of two sisters in a morgue in Ukrainian city Mykolaiv. They were killed by Russian shelling. The younger girl is three years old and lies on top of her sister,” she writes. Her jaw has been tied shut with gauze, her hands tied together to rest on her stomach. Little red wounds from shrapnel cover her body.” 
After spending the two weeks in the internat, she asks herself what she now thinks about Russia system of institutions. I have only scratched the surface of hell,” she replies. 
I Love Russia” is made up of different essays, including long-form articles first published in Novaya Gazeta, and chapters of memoir about Kostyuchenko’s own life – growing up, coming out, buying an apartment, arguing with her mother. 
For her reporting, Kostychenko has traveled all over Russia, and perhaps the most revealing parts of the book are her depictions of the remote, poverty-stricken communities in Russia’s regions where violence is a daily occurrence – and how starkly they contrast with affluent Moscow. 
It was really scary out there, beyond the [Moscow] ring road,” she writes. 
From "I Love Russia. Reporting From a Lost Country 
Chapter 12 It’s Been Fascist for a Long Time (Open Your Eyes) 
It was March, the end of March. Vera Drobinskaya, mother of seven adopted children, posted some photographs on her blog. They were blurry. A cemetery, just-melted snow, low, tender grass. The graves were nothing but unmarked heaps: no crosses, no tombstones, no names. Vera claimed that these were the graves of the children from Raznochinovka. Some of them seem to be mass graves,” she wrote. 
Raznochinovka is an internat, a live-in facility for children with mental disabilities. An investigation by the prosecutor general’s office showed that forty-one children had died there in the course of a decade. 
I think I asked to go there myself. 
Astrakhan is in the very south of Russia. Steppes, feather grass growing taller than you. The Volga here runs at full strength and spills into a hundred arms. The sun is so bright that you’re always squinting, searching for shade. 
Vera lives in a small wooden house. It’s filthy and cramped. I see all of her children at once. Nadya, Roma, and Masha are reading. Tavifa is changing into a new dress. She’s such a coquette,” Vera says. If she doesn’t change clothes four times in a day, it’s all been in vain.” Misha is sitting at Vera’s feet, watching us anxiously. In the yard, Kolya and Maxim are taking turns on a skateboard. 
All of Vera’s children are said to have neurodevelopmental disorders. 
Nadya, Roma, and Misha came from Raznochinovka. Kolya, Maxim, and Masha came from a regular orphanage but were about to be transferred there when Vera saved them. Vera took Tavifa to Germany for surgery, then adopted her. 
Vera is a doctor, a neonatal specialist. She says that she first found herself at Raznochinovka nine years ago. She went with an Italian woman who hadn’t managed to get her adoption papers together in time, so the child was sent there. He died that same night. They were so happy to tell her. . . . The nannies took us on a tour. It was a Saturday, no one in charge was there—they were still fearless back then. The ward for the bedridden. Children lying on the floor, on plastic sheets. Some of them tied to their beds by their feet. The nannies said, ‘So they don’t run away.’ But aren’t they supposed to be bedridden?” 
That was the first time that Vera saw Misha. He was tied to a bed with nylon stockings and chewing on his hands. Vera adopted Nadya and Roma along with Misha. The nannies said that they didn’t understand why they were there, they were totally normal.” 
It was so hard at first. The children could only communicate in a mixture of swearing and gestures. They didn’t want to go to school, they would shout, ‘We are retards, we don’t need to!’ You’d raise your hand to caress them and they would cower, expecting that you were going to hit them. They’d never known anything but cruelty. Misha didn’t walk back then, he could only crawl. One time, I asked Roma to help get him into the kitchen, and he started kicking him in the stomach, to kick him out of the room. I grabbed Roma and shouted, ‘No! You can’t do that!’ He was so shocked!” 
Vera keeps talking and talking, telling me how a Polish priest started her on volunteering, how at the hospital where she worked, infants would die for lack of the right formula, how she had been planning to adopt an eighth child from Raznochinovka, but child services rejected her application, how Misha had been injected with Thorazine and when she wrote to the prosecutor general’s office about it they said that the Thorazine was to treat epileptic seizures. Thorazine doesn’t treat epilepsy. They inject them with it just to make them lie still.” My pen runs out of ink; I get out the next one to keep taking notes. The children are watching Harry Potter. I think to myself that this can’t all be true, everything she is telling me, it is too wild, too dramatic. On the other hand, she is a doctor, doctors are reliable, but then, she no longer works, now she is just the mother of seven children with disabilities—nobody sane would have taken that on. Was she getting revenge on the children’s home for not letting her have an eighth? Anything seemed possible. 
I talk to Nadya. Nadya was seventeen and finishing the ninth grade. She started going to school when she was eleven, after Vera adopted her. They overturned her diagnosis of mental retardation.” Nadya tells me about the orphanage. The schedule was simple: In the morning, they would get dressed, line up for attendance, eat breakfast,” and then they would be put in the playroom. That’s where they usually spent the whole day, though sometimes the nannies would take them outside. The yard had a big gazebo, that’s where we sat.” She says, I was illiterate. But they did teach us embroidery.” She talks about how one of the nannies slapped her for bringing a kitten inside. They also hit you when you went in your underwear . . . or if they thought you stole something. One time, one of them yelled at me, ‘You stole my pen!’ and pushed me on the floor. . . . If you attacked a nanny, they’d give you pills and tie you down to a bed, then you slept all day. But I never did that. It was too dangerous. 
By evening, a lot of them were already drunk.” She says, One day, they turned out all the lights before we had time to make it to bed. One nanny was in a hurry, they were having a party. She picked up a stick and started swinging. She got my head and my fingers. But it wasn’t her fault! She didn’t even see who she was hitting, the lights were all out. Maybe she was just clearing a path for herself through us all.” 
Vera sits back down with us. The regional psychiatrist would say to me, ‘But they’re not normal.’ He’d go, ‘Compare one of them to a regular child, you can tell right away.’ I’d say, ‘Take a regular child and send him to Raznochinovka for nine years. Then try comparing them.’ ” 
Vera puts the kids in the van and we head down to the Volga. The kids run straight to the water. Masha splashes by the shore. I remember how when Vera brought Masha home, it turned out the girl had a short frenulum that made it difficult for her to talk. And that was the whole reason why they decided that she was mentally disabled. The main determining factor for landing in there is random chance.” How can that be? I sit on the shore thinking and thinking. I end up with a sunburn. I am on fire, I want to throw up, my skin is bright red, I can’t touch it. 
I don’t remember how I found Svetlana. Svetlana had her son admitted to Raznochinovka herself. I had no choice. It was only because I didn’t have a choice. Everything in our house was broken, he destroyed everything. Three times, he dropped this dresser on himself. He’d try to run out onto the balcony.” We walk through her trashed apartment while she explains how she took him to a rehabilitation center in a neighboring town, how she worked nights doing the books for a salon so she could watch her son during the day. She wants me to know that she’s a good mother, that it’s not her fault. In Russia, there’s no support for families with children like this. When Svetlana would go and see doctors, they’d tell her that her son was incurable, that all she could do was have him admitted to an internat. At Raznochinovka she was told that she could only have him admitted if she signed over her parental rights. That’s why I’m legally no one to him at this point,” she says. She visits him. He’s lost weight, he’s like a skeleton. All covered in bites and wounds. They tell me they bite themselves. But he’d never bitten himself before. All he does is hug everyone. Maybe that’s why they bite him? He’s changed so much. He turns on the lights everywhere. He is afraid of water now—before, you couldn’t get him out of the tub. He has stopped crying, he doesn’t cry anymore. How can I find out what’s going on with him in there? He doesn’t talk.” 
President Vladimir Putin's ally Viktor Medvedchuk and 55 servicemen were handed over to Russia in a record-high prisoner swap with Kyiv, a leader of Moscow-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine confirmed Thursday. 
"Fifty-six people were released, 55 of them servicemen... Viktor Medvedchuk was also released from captivity," Denis Pushilin told the state-run RIA Novosti news agency, referring to the former Ukrainian lawmaker, who was accused of high treason. 
Medvedchuk, 68, is one of Ukraine's richest people and says Putin is the godfather to his youngest daughter. 
He was captured by Ukraine's special forces in mid-April after escaping from house arrest. 
Russia's Defense Ministry said earlier that the released servicemen have been transported to Russia and "are in medical institutions of Russia's Defense Ministry." 
It claimed in a statement that the released prisoners were "in mortal danger" while in captivity. 
It did not mention the whereabouts of Medvedchuk. 
The Defense Ministry released a video of what it said were the freed servicemen, showing men in military uniform disembarking a plane during the night. 
Following the exchange announced on Wednesday, Ukraine received 215 people, including fighters who led the defense of Mariupol's Azovstal steelworks that became an icon of Ukrainian resistance. 
"We were ready to accept such a price, we gave away 215 people, including some of them... war criminals," Pushilin said, likely referring to fighters of the Azov regiment, a former volunteer battalion that was incorporated into Ukraine's army. 
Azov fighters are hate figures for Russia's state media and officials, who demonize them as "neo-Nazis" and have called to put them on trial. 
"But the task was to return our guys as soon as possible," Pushilin added. 
Also in the statement, the Defense Ministry's daily briefing, Moscow accused Kyiv of "provocations" at the Russian-held Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine "aimed at creating a threat of a man-made disaster." 
It said that over the past 24 hours, Ukraine repeatedly shelled the nearby city of Energodar and the territory near the plant, Europe's largest nuclear facility, adding that radiation levels were "normal." 
The plant has been a hot spot for concerns of a nuclear incident after tit-for-tat claims of attacks there. 
President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday named five successors to regional governors who were promoted to federal office earlier this week as part of a wider government reshuffle. 
In the central Tula region, former governor Alexei Dyumin’s deputy Dmitry Milyayev was appointed as the new acting regional head. Milyayev has held public office in the Tula region since 2014, including serving as Tula mayor between 2019 and 2022. 
Putin on Tuesday appointed Dyumin as an aide who will advise the Kremlin chief on issues related to the defense industry and sports. 
In the coal-mining Kemerovo region, former governor Sergei Tsivilyov’s deputy Ilya Seredyuk was appointed as the new acting regional head. Seredyuk served as the mayor of Kemerovo between 2016 and 2022. 
Tsivilyov was appointed as Russia’s new energy minister. 
In the western Kursk region, which has faced regular drone attacks and border incursions since Moscow launched its full-scale invasion of Ukraine, former governor Roman Starovoit’s deputy Alexei Smirnov was appointed as the new acting regional head. 
Smirnov started his career in the Kursk region in the late 1990s before moving to the Moscow region in the early 2010s, then returning as the Kursk region’s deputy governor in 2018. 
Starovoit was appointed as Russia’s new transportation minister. 
In the western exclave of Kaliningrad, former governor Anton Alikhanov was replaced with Deputy Industry and Trade Minister Alexei Besprozvannykh. 
A graduate of the Skolkovo Executive MBA education program for managers and business owners, Besprozvannykh had worked at the regional branches of the MTS mobile phone network operator before landing a job at the Industry and Trade Ministry in 2016. 
Alikhanov was appointed as Russia’s new industry and trade minister. 
In the Khabarovsk region, former governor Mikhail Degtyaryov was replaced by Dmitry Demeshin, a deputy general prosecutor for the Russian Far East. In 2020, Degtyaryov was appointed governor of the far-flung region amid mass protests against the arrest of the popular former governor Sergei Furgal, who is now serving a 22-year prison sentence for homicide. 
Born in Soviet Uzbekistan, Demeshin served two-year stints at prosecutors’ offices in Moscow region towns, then in the Rostov and Kulga regions starting in 1997 before he was promoted to federal office in 2014. 
On Tuesday, Degtyaryov was appointed as Russia’s new sports minister 
The new acting governors will stay in office until they are replaced or voted in during Russia’s upcoming gubernatorial elections. 
Russian opposition politician Vladimir Kara-Murza, jailed for 25 years on treason charges and for denouncing Moscow's Ukraine offensive, has arrived to serve his sentence at a maximum-security Siberian prison, his lawyer said Sunday. 
Kara-Murza — a dual Russian-British citizen — was handed the unprecedentedly long sentence in April, with international leaders and supporters calling for his release. 
"Vladimir Kara-Murza has been brought to the Omsk maximum security penal colony IK-6 to serve his punishment," his lawyer Vadim Prokhorov said on Facebook. 
"He was straight away placed in an isolation cell." 
Omsk is some 2,700 kilometres east of Moscow. 
Russia's penal system often takes weeks to bring prisoners to the country's far-flung jails, with the whereabouts of a prisoner in transit often unknown and stopping in various jails along the way. 
"The whole journey from Moscow to Omsk in the 21st century took no less than three weeks," Prokhorov said, saying he was kept for "several days" in an isolation cell in the central city of Samara. 
Prokhorov said placing the 42-year-old in such cells puts his fragile health at risk. 
Kara-Murza's lawyers and family have said he suffers from a nerve condition called polyneuropathy due to two poisoning attempts. 
Kara-Murza was found guilty of spreading "false information" about the Russian army and of having links to an "undesirable organization" in a closed-door trial in Spring. 
His sentence is the longest against a Russian opposition figure in recent years. 
He has long campaigned for Western countries to place sanctions on Russian officials. 
Moscow has unleashed an unprecedented crackdown on dissent as its troops fight in Ukraine. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin signed off on the annexation of four partially occupied Ukrainian regions Friday in a major escalation of Moscow’s seven-month war with its pro-Western neighbor. 
Putin confirmed the annexation of the eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions as well as the southern Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions in a televised ceremony in the Kremlin's St. George's Hall. 
Ukraine and its allies in the West have vowed never to recognize the annexation, calling it a blatant violation of Kyiv’s sovereignty. 
People living in Donetsk, Luhansk, Zaporizhzhia and Kherson are becoming our citizens forever,” Putin said in a combative 40-minute speech, calling on Ukraine to lay down their arms and come to the negotiating table. 
We will defend our land with all the means we have available to us,” Putin told the room filled with hundreds of lawmakers and officials, including the occupied regions’ Moscow-installed leaders. 
After signing the annexation accords, Putin and the four Moscow-installed proxies joined hands and chanted "Russia! Russia! Russia!" 
Russia's parliament is expected to ratify the treaties next week, after which the four regions will formally become part of Russia. 
The 'Satanic' West 
In a speech filled with unprecedented anti-American rhetoric, Putin railed against Western colonialism and imperialism, claiming that the United States wanted to turn Russia into a colony. 
The dictatorship of the Western elite is directed against all societies, including against the peoples of those Western countries themselves. It’s a challenge for all. This means the total negation of the human, the overthrow of religion and traditional values as the crushing of freedom becomes to look like the opposite of religion – open Satanism,” he said. 
The West is prepared to cross every boundary in order to preserve its neo-colonial system,” he said. They want to see us as a colony… they don’t want to see us as a free society but as a crowd of slaves.” 
Putin blamed the United States for this week’s unexplained explosions at the Nord Stream pipelines that have left them leaking huge amounts of natural gas into the Baltic Sea. 
It’s obvious to everyone who did it,” he said. 
He alleged that Washington is "still, in effect, occupying” countries like Germany, Japan and South Korea. 
Billboards already up on the Moscow ring road: "We will defend our lands with all forces & means available & do everything to ensure people's safety. That's the great liberating mission of our people." pic.twitter.com/2mAjbYI7Oa 
And he slammed Washington's past use of nuclear weapons, comments that follow his warning last week that he wasn’t bluffing” about resorting to any means necessary” in Ukraine. 
The U.S. is the only country in the world to have used nuclear weapons,” Putin said. Creating a precedent.” 
Experts drew contrasts between Putin's speech and the Kremlin's upbeat rhetoric in 2014, when it annexed Crimea from Ukraine. 
This speech was meant to be a ‘mobilization’ of joy like it was 2014,” Andrei Kolesnikov, an expert in Russian politics at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, told The Moscow Times. 
But it was built on the language of hatred. Everything that Putin said about the West, he could address to himself.” 
Mandatory celebration 
Putin later addressed thousands of Russians who gathered in Red Square in front of a stage emblazoned with the words Donetsk. Luhansk. Zaporizhzhia. Kherson. Russia!” 
Today is a day of truth and justice,” Putin said, flanked by the Moscow-appointed leaders of the annexed regions. Russia not only opens the doors of our home for our brothers and sisters but also opens its heart.” 
Putin led the crowd in a chant of hurrah!” for soldiers on the frontline and said that we have become stronger because we are together.” 
While one Muscovite present at the rally said we are filled with pride” in a short TV interview, it appeared that many in the crowd had been forced to join the celebrations. 
We were told that it’s a must and everyone has to go and stand there with Russian flags,” one state employee told The Moscow Times on condition of anonymity. 
No one really wants to be there, but we are afraid of possible consequences,” she said via text message. 
No one is talking about politics or Ukraine. It seems that some people here are drunk, singing the anthem and waving flags,” she said. 
'No longer a leader but a follower' 
Putin's public appearances and announcement of the annexation cap a whirlwind 10 days during which the Kremlin launched a partial” mobilization and staged internationally condemned referendums in occupied Ukraine. 
And it takes place seven months into Moscow’s invasion of its pro-Western neighbor, a campaign that has been marked by repeated military setbacks. 
For Putin, the annexation is a last-gasp attempt to portray the war as a success, according to political analyst Abbas Gallyamov. 
By annexing the areas, Putin will try to portray that he is unbeaten. But the Kremlin is just going with the flow — it’s no longer a leader but a follower,” said Gallyamov, a former speechwriter for Putin. 
Combined with Crimea, which Moscow annexed from Kyiv in 2014, Russia now lays claim to roughly 20% of Ukraine. 
Yet Russia does not control the entirety of Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson or Zaporizhzhia regions, and Ukraine has continued to regain ground in its ongoing counteroffensive. 
Kyiv’s forces appeared poised Friday to encircle Lyman, a strategic town just north of the Donetsk region. 
Shortly after Putin's speech, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky announced that Kyiv was applying for accelerated accession to NATO. 
"De facto, we have already made our way to NATO. Today, Ukraine is applying to make it de jure," Zelensky said. 
And the U.S. announced "severe" new sanctions against Russian officials and the country's defense industry in response to the Kremlin's annexation, which President Joe Biden condemned as "fraudulent.” 
— In a televised statement to Russia’s parliament, Vladimir Putin backed a constitutional shake-up that could see him remain president for another two full terms. 
The plans would mean Russia’s cap of two six-year presidential terms for presidents would be reset when a batch of high-profile constitutional amendments come into force later this year, thereby allowing Putin to run for office again in 2024 and 2030 — should he wish to of course. To dig into the developments and look at what happens now, Professor Sam Greene, head of the Russia Institute at King's College London, joins us on the line. 
— Last week, Russia rejected a proposal from Saudi Arabia to cut oil production in response to the economic fallout of the coronavirus, kicking off an oil price war” and sending global energy prices tumbling. In the studio to weigh up those claims and assess the real damage is Natasha Doff, economy and government editor at Bloomberg News here in Moscow. 
From Russia With News is hosted by Jake Cordell and produced by Pjotr Sauer. The episode was recorded and edited at CM Records Studio in central Moscow. 
Move is seen as a bid to get Europe to roll back heavy sanctions on Moscow. 
Russia will force Europe to start paying for gas supplies in rubles, President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday in televised remarks. 
I have decided to implement a set of measures to transfer payments for our gas supplies to unfriendly countries into Russian rubles,” Putin said, ordering the changes to be implemented within a week. 
The measures are part of Russia’s response to the West’s unprecedented sanctions leveled on Moscow in response to the attack on Ukraine. 
Russia deems all countries that have hit it with sanctions following its invasion of Ukraine as unfriendly.” 
Europe imports around 40% of its natural gas from Russia, with contracts typically priced in euros. Russia’s gas exports to unfriendly” countries came in at around $50 billion in 2021, according to an estimate by Loko Invest. 
It doesn’t make sense to deliver our goods to the EU or U.S. and receive payments in dollars or euros,” Putin said in the meeting with government officials. 
The move was met with pushback Wednesday evening from some of Russia's key gas customers, including Germany, Austria and Italy. 
Berlin said Russia's demands constitute a breach of contract, while Vienna and Rome both said they would continue paying for Russian gas in euros, citing Moscow's attempt to skirt the impact of sanctions. 
"The announcement of paying in rubles is ... a breach of the contract and we will now discuss with our European partners how we would react to that," said German Economy Minister Robert Habeck, whose country imported 55% of its natural gas from Russia before Moscow invaded Ukraine. 
Analysts see Putin’s move as Moscow’s attempt to put pressure on Europe over its sanctions — or turn the tables on the EU,” as Elina Ribakova, deputy chief economist and sanctions expert at the Institute of International Finance, said. 
In sanctions on Russia’s Central Bank, the West has frozen almost half of Russia’s international reserves — some $300 billion that Moscow had seen as its anti-sanctions insurance policy, huge funds that could be used should it be cut out of the financial system. 
If Putin’s order is implemented, Europe would have to buy hundreds of millions of euros’ worth of rubles every day to pay for its substantial gas deliveries. From Russia’s perspective, that would provide an inflow of much-needed hard currency and boost demand for the beleaguered Russian currency. 
But transactions could prove tricky for Europe as many Russian state banks, including the Central Bank itself, are under sanctions which prohibit direct transactions. 
He is basically trying to get Western countries who sanctioned the Central Bank to transact with it,” said analyst Timothy Ash. But this will just make it more difficult to transact with Russia for energy supplies.” 
The Russian ruble, whose value cratered in the wake of the sanctions, jumped on Putin’s announcement, strengthening by almost 4% against the U.S. dollar in trading in Moscow. Prices for gas in Europe rose 8%. 
Russia is currently requiring exporters to sell 80% of their hard currency earnings — effectively using its extensive export earnings to replace the Central Bank’s frozen reserves and stop the Russian ruble from falling even further. 
Maria Shagina, a visiting senior research fellow at the Finnish Institute of International Affairs, branded the announcement an unexpected turn from the Kremlin.” 
I tend to think this is another bluff. Receiving hard currency from hydrocarbons is much more important now than forcing all ‘unfriendly’ countries to purchase rubles,” she told the Moscow Times. 
Some analysts also questioned whether switching the payment currency would be permitted under existing contracts signed between Gazprom, Russia’s monopoly gas exporter, and customers in Europe. 
The very tight gas market will force European customers to abide by this. There is a lack of alternatives: buy rubles or stay without Russian gas,” said Shagina. 
Europe has come under heavy pressure to stop buying Russian oil and gas — a key source of income for the Russian economy — since the invasion of Ukraine began. 
Moscow has also sought to use energy prices to pressure Europe, with several politicians, including Putin himself, saying Western sanctions have created a cost of living crisis in the West by way of soaring energy prices. 
Russia must work to overcome colossal” high-tech problems caused by Western sanctions imposed on Moscow over its invasion of Ukraine, President Vladimir Putin said Monday. 
"This is a huge challenge for our country," Putin said, accusing Western countries of deliberately blocking access to high-tech products for Russia. 
Realizing the colossal amount of difficulties we are facing, we will look for new solutions in an energetic and efficient manner," he said at a meeting of the Presidential Council for Strategic Development and National Projects. 
"It's clear that we can't develop in isolation from the whole world, but this will not be the case — it's impossible to put up huge fences in the modern world," Putin added. 
The European Union and the U.S. imposed severe economic and diplomatic sanctions on Russia over its invasion of Ukraine in late February — including targeting Russia’s military-industrial sector and limiting Russia’s access to advanced technologies. 
Many top tech companies including Apple, Microsoft and Intel suspended their operations in Russia, or left the country altogether, leaving Russia without any domestic alternatives. 
Russia's economy will shrink 15% this year as the hit from Western sanctions, wiping out 15 years of economic gains, the Institute of International Finance said last month. 
Events on the battlefield in Ukraine are a matter of "life and death" for Russia that could determine its fate, President Vladimir Putin said in remarks aired Sunday. 
The Kremlin has repeatedly framed the almost two-year conflict as a battle for Russia's survival in a bid to rally patriotic sentiment among its population, many apathetic toward the offensive. 
"I think it is still important for us ourselves, and even more so for our listeners and viewers abroad, to understand our way of thinking," Putin said in an interview with state TV. 
"Everything that is happening on the Ukraine front: for them it is an improvement of their tactical position, but for us it is our fate, it is a matter of life and death," he said. 
Putin was responding to a question about a two-hour long interview he gave to U.S. talk show host Tucker Carlson, which the Kremlin used to promote its narratives on the conflict. 
In that interview, Putin talked at length about Russian history and continuously questioned Ukraine's statehood, drawing ire in both Kyiv and the West. 
"For the Western listener, the viewer, it was not easy. Even more so for Americans," Putin said when asked about his long historical musings in the Carlson interview. 
"The history of the United States is 300-odd years, and I started in 862. So I think it was not easy for American audiences to understand," he said. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin warned Tuesday of "serious consequences" if Western countries allowed Ukraine to use their weapons to strike Russia. 
Speaking in Uzbekistan, Putin's comments came in response to calls within some NATO member states to allow Ukraine to hit targets inside Russia. 
"This constant escalation can lead to serious consequences," Putin said. 
"In Europe, especially in small countries, they should be aware of what they are playing with," he added. 
The Russian leader said leaders should bear in mind the "small territory" and "dense population" of many European countries. 
"And this factor, which they should keep in mind before they talk about striking deep into Russian territory, is a serious thing." 
He said that while Ukraine would carry out the strikes, the responsibility for them would lie with Western suppliers of the weapons. 
"They want a global conflict," he added. 
Putin also said that while he believed Western military instructors were already in Ukraine operating undercover as mercenaries, countries such as France sending them officially would be another "escalation." 
"It is another step towards a serious conflict in Europe, towards a global conflict," he said. 
Ukraine's top commander announced Monday that talks were being held with France on sending military instructors to the country. 
"There are specialists there under the guise of mercenaries," Putin said, adding that "this was nothing new." 
He said that they would be "defeated" by the Russian army and that "we will do what we think is necessary regardless of who is on the territory of Ukraine." 
President Vladimir Putin traveled to the northeastern Chinese city of Harbin on Friday, the final day of his brief trip, where he sought to promote crucial trade with China and win greater support for Russia's war on Ukraine. 
The Russian leader arrived in China on Thursday, his first trip abroad since being re-elected in March, meeting with his counterpart Xi Jinping for talks in which the two heads of state framed their nations' ties as a stabilizing force in a chaotic world. 
China and Russia's strategic partnership has only grown closer since the full-scale invasion of Ukraine more than two years ago, and Beijing has rebuffed Western claims that it is aiding Moscow's war effort. 
China has also offered a critical lifeline to Russia's isolated economy, with trade booming since the invasion and hitting $240 billion in 2023, according to Chinese customs figures. 
Putin's trip to Harbin is part of efforts to enhance that economic relationship. 
Speaking at the opening ceremony of a Russia-China trade expo on Friday, Putin hailed energy ties between the two countries and promised to "strengthen" them. 
"Russia is ready and able to continuously power the Chinese economy, businesses, cities, and towns with affordable and environmentally clean energy," he said. 
"As the world is on the threshold of the next technological revolution, we are determined to consistently deepen bilateral cooperation in the field of high technologies and innovations," he added. 
Lying just a few hundred kilometers from the border with Russia, Harbin has long served as a key hub for cross-border trade and cultural exchange. 
Putin is expected to hold a press conference with Russian state media later on Friday. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin has visited the military headquarters in Rostov-on-Don that is overseeing the Ukraine offensive, the Kremlin said on Friday. 
Putin "has visited the Russian armed forces headquarters in Rostov-on-Don on his way back from Perm," a city in the Urals where he spent Thursday, the Kremlin said in a statement. 
Army chief of staff Valery Gerasimov met with Putin to update him on the state of the Ukraine offensive, which Russia launched in February, 2022. 
The meeting came after Ukraine's announcement on Tuesday that it had for the first time used U.S.-supplied ATACMS long-range missiles in the conflict. 
Putin said the following day that the weapons, which have a range of 165 kilometers (103 miles) would have no influence on the war and would only prolong Ukraine's "agony." 
President Vladimir Putin paid a surprise overnight visit to the military headquarters overseeing Moscow's war against Ukraine, the Kremlin said on Friday. 
It is his second visit to military headquarters, which is located in southern Russia's Rostov-on-Don, in the past month. 
Putin "visited the headquarters of the Russian Armed Forces in Rostov-on-Don, after completing his official visit to Kazakhstan" on Thursday, the Kremlin said in a statement. 
Putin reportedly paid a late-night visit to the HQ of Southern Military District in Rostov-on-Don. Shoigu and Gerasimov again get prominent visibility as his personal guides. pic.twitter.com/eP9jAjozNM 
He was accompanied by Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and the commander of military operations in Ukraine, Valery Gerasimov, it added. 
The Russian leader was shown new military equipment and briefed on combat operations in Ukraine, the statement continued. 
Putin was last in Rostov-on-Don at the end of October when he held talks with military officials on what the Kremlin calls its "special military operation" in Ukraine. 
In November 2023, Russia outlawed the so-called "international LGBT movement" as extremist. The decision followed a recent anti-trans ban and the expansion of the anti-"gay propaganda" law in 2022. These decisions are the result of more than a decade of consistent anti-LGBTQ+ legislation, which scholars have called President Vladimir Putin’s "war on queerness." 
In a lecture at University College London, Olga Doletskaya, an anthropologist studying contemporary queer lives in Russia, contextualizes the anti-LGBTQ+ crackdown by looking at Russia’s recent queer history and explains what the extremist designation means for the LGBTQ+ community in Russia. 
This lecture at University College London is part of a series of talks by media professionals and experts on Russia organized by The Moscow Times at leading universities and research centers around the world. 
The Russian division of Austria’s Raiffeisen Bank will stop processing outgoing payments in U.S. dollars starting on June 10, the bank announced Wednesday, citing changed requirements of correspondent banks.” 
This change affects all bank clients… All payments in dollars correctly completed and sent before 16:00 on June 7 will be carried out taking into account previously established restrictions,” the bank said in a statement. 
Raiffeisen said there would be no restrictions on incoming U.S. dollar payments, adding that starting on June 1, there will be a 50% discount on the bank’s commission for making outgoing payments from individual clients in U.S. dollars to other banks.” 
Raiffeisen previously announced plans to gradually exit Russia following the full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, but it has not yet offloaded its operations and has been accused by campaigners of only paying lip service to its intention to quit the market. 
Earlier this month, the U.S. Treasury Department reportedly warned Raiffeisen that it could lose access to the U.S. financial system because of continued operations in Russia. 
Raiffeisen Bank International saw its Russian profits more than triple to 1.8 billion euros ($1.95 billion) between 2021 and 2023, a figure that accounted for half of the bank’s total profit during that period. 
The Austrian bank — which was the largest foreign bank operating in the country before the invasion — spent years building up its Russian operations. It specialized in servicing European companies, their foreign workers and other high-end international clients, but had started aggressively building up its portfolio of Russian domestic business clients in the years before Moscow invaded Ukraine. 
An endangered Siberian tiger has killed a man in Russia’s Far Eastern region of Khabarovsk, law enforcement officials said Monday. 
According to the local branch of Russia’s Investigative Committee, a wild Siberian tiger — also known as an Amur tiger — attacked the unidentified man near the village of Obor, which has a population of about 500 people. 
The Amur Tiger Center, a non-profit organization that monitors the population of the endangered tiger species, said the animal had wandered into Obor on Sunday and killed the man’s dog. 
He then followed the Siberian tiger into a nearby forest, where other residents later found his body along with the remains of his dog. 
Authorities in the Khabarovsk region have reported nearly 300 cases of tigers entering populated areas this year, and in some instances, the wild animals have killed dogs and attacked people. 
Experts say that an uptick in encounters between humans and Siberian tigers could indicate serious disruptions” in their habitats. 
In my view, [increased tiger attacks are] associated with the destruction of the predator's habitats due to logging, excessive hunting of [the tiger’s prey] and African swine fever, which has decimated the remaining wild boar population," zoologist Sergei Kolchin told the environmental news outlet Kedr 
In August, residents in the Khabarovsk region asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to help ensure better protection against Siberian tigers. 
Putin has for years been a vocal advocate of protecting the endangered tiger species, and in 2013 he created a foundation for their conservation. 
Moscow smashed a daily temperature record on Tuesday, with thermometers in the Russian capital measuring a balmy 23.2 degrees Celsius. 
The previous record was broken in 1951, when the daily high for April 2 in Moscow was recorded at 17.4 degrees C. 
Tuesday’s new historic high followed days of unseasonably warm weather throughout much of the European part of Russia, fueled by tropical air from the Mediterranean and North Africa, according to researchers at Moscow State University. 
At the start of the week, temperatures in the Russian capital had already climbed to 20.3 C, the earliest recorded temperature above 20 degrees in Moscow’s history. 
According to the chief scientist at Russia's Hydrometeorological Center, Roman Vilfand, temperatures of 20-22 degrees C in Moscow are more typical for late May and early June. 
Muscovites could be seen enjoying the warm weather early this week, as many walked around the city in T-shirts and light clothing, while others rode bikes, scooters and skateboards. 
Meteorologists said snow cover in the Russian capital has almost completely melted, more than two weeks earlier than on average. 
The unseasonably warm weather extended beyond Moscow, as nearly 50 temperature records were broken across the European part of Russia on Monday, meteorologists said. 
St. Petersburg witnessed a daily record of 19.6 C on Monday. 
The record highs come just days after Russia's state meteorological service issued its latest climate report that said 2023 was Russia’s third hottest year since 1936. 
The report issued a stark warning that summer heatwaves could become the most significant climate-induced threat to the Russian economy, leading to crop failures and deadly wildfires. 
Following the inauguration of President Vladimir Putin to a fifth term in office on May 7, the Russian government has undergone a reshuffle of ministers in cabinet positions. 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, who was reappointed to a second term, submitted his cabinet nominations to the Russian parliament late last week, and in the days since, they have been swiftly approved by lawmakers. 
There was speculation ahead of the reshuffle about who would stay and who would go, but besides the shocking ouster of Sergei Shoigu as defense minister, much in the government has remained the same. 
Here’s a guide to the people who make up Mishustin’s cabinet, with the latest new faces and who’s changed places. 
First Deputy Prime Minister: 
Now serving as first deputy prime minister, Manturov was elevated from the twin posts of deputy prime minister and industry and trade minister after Putin tapped his predecessor Andrei Belousov as Russia’s new defense minister. 
A government statement highlighted Manturov’s role in ensuring technological leadership as stated in the new May decree signed by the president,” singling out the defense sector alongside other key industries like aircraft manufacturing and machine-tool building. 
The new first deputy prime minister has seen his star rise since Moscow launched the full-scale invasion, overseeing increasingly important issues of industrial policy as Russia seeks to produce more tanks, guns, missiles, and ammo to wage war on Ukraine. 
Deputy Prime Ministers: 
Golikova, who grew to prominence when she oversaw Russia’s Covid-19 response center, will continue to focus on social policy in Mishustin’s second cabinet. 
Her role is defined as strengthening interethnic and inter-religious harmony in the country through the preservation of traditional Russian spiritual, moral and cultural values.” 
Patrushev, a newcomer who previously served as Russia’s agriculture minister, will replace Viktoria Abramchenko in overseeing policy on agriculture and the environment. 
As the son of former Russian Security Council chairman Nikolai Patrushev, the younger Patrushev has been rumored to be on the shortlist of Putin’s possible successors. 
Ambramchenko, meanwhile, will transition to a new place of work.” But where exactly is still a mystery. 
Chernyshenko will oversee sport, tourism, and education to advance what the government calls its renewed national goal of bringing up a harmoniously developed personality... starting from kindergarten and ending with university.” 
Before joining the government, Chernyshenko was the general director and chairman of the board at Gazprom Media, as well as the president of the Continental Hockey League, which comprises mostly Russian clubs. 
Savelyev, who previously served as transportation minister, is another newcomer who will oversee issues related to transportation after having ensured the resilience of the entrusted industry in the face of Western sanctions” at his last job. 
He honed his skills in the transportation sector after being plucked from the corporate world to lead the flagship air carrier Aeroflot’s transformation into a modern company. Savelyev held that position between 2009 and 2020. 
Novak will continue to oversee Russia’s energy industry but will now also take on economic policy from the outgoing Belousov. 
As energy minister between 2012 and 2020, Novak ensured Russia’s seat at the table with the oil-producing organization OPEC as part of an informal wider group known as OPEC+. Novak continued to forge that alliance after Putin promoted him to deputy prime minister in 2020. 
Grigorenko, who also serves as chief of the government staff, will continue to oversee the financial and digital development industries. 
His additional new duties include communication and antitrust policy, with the government saying he will take charge of the digital transformation of public administration, key sectors of the economy, and the social sector.” 
Grigorenko is a Federal Tax Service veteran who has headed the Russian government apparatus — whose main task is to organize the government bureaucracy’s activities and monitor its work — since Mishustin’s first cabinet in 2020. 
Khusnullin will return to Mishustin’s cabinet to oversee construction. On Monday, he vowed continued cooperation with the Defense Ministry on housing, building fortifications, and the necessary infrastructure” in the Russian-occupied territories of Ukraine. 
As deputy Moscow mayor for urban construction between 2010 and 2020, he oversaw some of the Russian capital’s largest-ever expansion, including new metro station openings and stadium overhauls ahead of the 2018 FIFA World Cup. 
In the previous government cabinet, Khusnullin was tasked with overseeing repairs of the Crimea bridge, which was damaged in a bombing attack in October 2022. A few months later, the deputy prime minister drove across the bridge alongside Putin. 
Overchuk, who left the Federal Tax Service in 2020 to join his boss Mishustin in government, will continue to oversee international cooperation, including relations with countries that are members of the Commonwealth of Independent States and the Eurasian Economic Union. 
Trutnev will continue to oversee Russia’s Far East. He started his career in the Perm region, where he first served as the mayor of the regional capital between 1996 and 2000, and then as governor between 2000 and 2004. 
He was appointed as natural resources minister in 2004, and then later, as presidential assistant and presidential envoy to the Far East, a post which he still holds. 
As part of the 2020 constitutional changes that allowed Putin to seek his fifth and sixth terms, Andrei Belousov’s and Sergei Lavrov’s candidacies for the respective posts of defense minister and foreign minister will be considered on Wednesday by the upper-house Federation Council, which like the Duma has voted in lock-step to advance the Russian president’s agenda. 
At the same time, the Federation Council has already approved reappointments for the heads of the government’s so-called security block,” including Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) chief Sergei Naryshkin and Interior Minister Vladimir Kolokoltsev, among others. 
Besides that, the appointments of 16 civilian” government ministers have also received a green light from lawmakers. Among those, 11 ministers were reappointed, while the other five were newcomers. 
New Ministers: 
Tsivilyov, the reported husband of Putin’s niece Anna Tsivilyova, replaced Nikolai Shulginov as energy minister. 
As the former governor of the coal-mining Kemerovo region, Tsivilyov brandished his pro-industry credentials to the State Duma’s approval committee on Sunday, including his 11 years of experience navigating ships in the Mediterranean Sea, as well as the Arctic and Atlantic oceans. 
In 2018, Tsivilyov, then serving as deputy governor of the Kemerovo region, became known across Russia after he got down on his knees to apologize to residents for a major shopping mall fire that killed dozens of people, including children. His former boss at the time, Aman Tuleyev, resigned amid a public outcry over the tragedy. 
Alikhanov served two terms as governor of the Kaliningrad exclave before replacing Denis Manturov as industry and trade minister. However, he did work briefly at the ministry in 2013, dealing with issues of state regulation and foreign trade. 
He is among a rising group of young technocrats appointed to federal posts as part of Kremlin Deputy Chief of Staff Sergei Kiriyenko’s public administration training and promotion system. 
Starovoit replaced Vitaly Savelyev as transportation minister after serving for nearly five years as the governor of the western Kursk region, which has been regularly attacked by Ukrainian drones and armed incursions since the start of the war. 
Before his stint as governor, Starovoit was the head of Russia’s Federal Road Agency, and then later, served as deputy transportation minister. 
Degtyarev, whom Putin appointed as governor of the Far East Khabarovsk region after his popular predecessor Sergei Furgal was arrested and then later jailed on murder charges, replaced Oleg Matitsyn as sports minister. 
Well, of course, this came as a surprise since, as the president’s soldier, I promised Vladimir Vladimirovich that I would develop the Khabarovsk region,” he told journalists when asked about his new ministerial position. 
A former fencing champion, Degtyarev has been positioned as the man who will confront the challenges” of wartime bans against Russian athletes from international athletic competitions. 
Lut will take over for her former boss Dmitry Patrushev as agriculture minister. She worked in the banking industry for nearly two decades before going into government in 2018. 
Her most recent private sector job was at the Russian Agricultural Bank, which provides lending support to Russian agribusiness. 
Residents of Orsk, the Ural Mountains city most impacted by some of Russia’s worst flooding in decades, staged protests against local authorities’ perceived inaction on Monday. 
Much of Orsk was submerged underwater after the Ural River swelled and burst through a dam embankment on Friday, forcing thousands to evacuate. Russia declared a regionwide state of emergency as water levels continued to rise and threaten the regional capital of Orenburg. 
Shame! Shame! Shame!” the crowd of around 100 was heard shouting in the Orsk central square, according to the Ostorozhno Novosti news channel on Telegram. 
The outlet said the chants were directed at the local administration over low compensation for property damage and the burst dam’s structural deficiencies. 
Regional prosecutors had warned residents against staging unauthorized meetings in connection with the floods. 
According to Ostorozhno Novosti, police attempted to disperse the crowd through orders on a loudspeaker. 
Some protest leaders were invited for private negotiations with Orenburg region Governor Denis Pasler, according to the local news outlet Orsk.ru. 
Orsk Mayor Vasily Kozupitsa stayed outside to address the crowd, the outlet said. 
Another video from the demonstration showed parts of the crowd shouting Putin, Help!” in an apparent appeal for President Vladimir Putin’s direct intervention. 
The Kremlin said that Putin, who ordered a government commission to oversee the flood response, did not plan to visit the damaged area. 
Earlier footage of federal Emergency Situations Minister Alexander Kurenkov surveying the damage showed a resident criticizing Putin’s absence. 
Authorities in western Siberia’s Tyumen region said Tuesday that abnormal” flooding has led to revised predictions for the anticipated peak water levels in the Tobol and Ishim rivers. 
Along the Tobol River, hydrologists have observed abnormal behavior. The water moves very slowly because it’s spilling over the floodplain,” Tyumen region Governor Alexander Moor said on social media. Flood peaks are shifting [to] after May 6 [and] May 9-10.” 
The Ishim River was expected to peak at 12.15 meters on Monday, but Moor said water levels had risen to 12.22 meters on Tuesday morning and continued to increase. 
That’s 74 centimeters above the peak of 2017,” he said. 
Later on Tuesday, the governor said the Ishim River was also expected to reach peak levels on May 5-6. 
Authorities in the Tyumen region declared a state of emergency on April 8 due to the two swelling rivers, with mandatory evacuations ordered in two regional districts. Officials previously said the Ishim River would reach peak levels around April 23-25. 
Since early April, Russia and neighboring Kazakhstan have been battling devastating floods that have forced the evacuation of tens of thousands of people. 
Spring flooding caused by melting ice is common in some parts of Russia, but this year’s heavy rainfall, combined with unusually warm spring weather, has led to severe flooding in Russia’s Urals and western Siberia. 
The Kremlin-run RT news network will go off the air in the U.S. capital because of its foreign agent” status in the country, its chief editor has claimed. 
RT’s American branch was ordered to register as a foreign agent” in the U.S. last fall following allegations of Russian interference in the 2016 presidential election. The channel will be taken off air after two Virginia-based digital stations that carry RT alongside other international broadcasters disappear from screens this Sunday, a year after they were auctioned off by their parent organization. 
We were thrown out of the broadcast network in Washington. This is dedicated to everyone who ardently and sincerely reassured us that the foreign agent label will in no way affect RT’s work in the States,” RT Russia cited its editor-in-chief Margarita Simonyan as saying Thursday. 
Simonyan tweeted on Thursday that the network was going off air because of its "foreign agent status.” 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said Friday that lawyers were closely studying the grounds for the decision, but said that at first glance it looked illegal and discriminatory. 
Simonyan later added that RT would continue broadcasts in other U.S. cities on platforms that continue carrying the channel. 
Russia has added the exiled actor Alexei Panin to its list of terrorists and extremists,” the state-run TASS news agency reported Tuesday, citing the state financial watchdog Rosfinmonitoring. 
A Moscow court in February ruled to place Panin, known for his roles in films like The Star” (2002) and Dead Man's Bluff” (2005), in pre-trial detention in absentia. 
The actor has lived abroad since 2020, and following Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, he moved to the United States. 
Russian authorities charged Panin with justifying terrorism” last year after he made an online post celebrating the deadly October 2022 bomb attack on the Crimea bridge. 
Rosfinmonitoring on Wednesday also added ex-presidential human rights council member Eva Merkacheva, as well as journalists Anna Loyko and Maria Menshikova, to its list of terrorists and extremists,” according to TASS. 
Being included on the list allows the Russian authorities to freeze designees’ bank accounts without a court order. 
Russia has advised its citizens to refrain” from traveling to the United Kingdom and from trying to obtain a British visa, citing what it called London’s unfriendly” stance toward Moscow and long delays for visa applications. 
In a statement Friday, the Russian Foreign Ministry accused the British Embassy in Moscow of prioritizing applications from Ukrainian refugees over those of Russian nationals, resulting in major visa processig delays. 
Additionally, many Russian applicants are unable to pay their consular fees, as Russian banks have largely been cut off from global financial systems due to Moscow’s invasion of Ukraine. 
Taking into account the extremely unfriendly course of the U.K. towards our country, in order to avoid financial losses and other possible problems, we recommend that Russian citizens refrain, if possible, from traveling to the U.K. and trying to obtain British visas,” the Foreign Ministry said. 
The ministry’s advisory came shortly after Britain announced new sanctions against members of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s inner circle, whom it accused of hiding the Russian president’s ill-gotten wealth. 
The British Foreign Ministry currently advises its citizens to avoid traveling to Russia, citing a lack of flight options, economic insecurity, the ongoing military conflict with Ukraine and potential political persecution. 
Britain has also advised its nationals currently in Russia to leave the country if their presence there is not absolutely necessary. 
Direct flights between Britain and Russia were halted shortly after Russia announced its invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24. 
The Human Rights Watch (HRW) NGO has accused Moscow and Damascus of using incendiary weapons in Syria in a report published Tuesday. 
The United Nations Convention on Conventional Weapons bans the use of incendiary weapons on civilian targets because of the chemical fires they produce. These fires are difficult to put out and cause destruction to civilian infrastructure and excruciating burns which are hard to treat. 
A total of 113 countries, including Russia, have agreed to the protocol on incendiary weapons but Syria has ignored calls to do so. The protocol bans air-delivered incendiary bombs but permits ground-launched incendiary weapon attacks. 
Russia entered the Syria conflict in support of its ally President Bashar Assad in September last year, with Russian aerial support considered key to gains made against insurgents by Syrian government forces. 
HRW report that there is compelling evidence that Russian aircraft are being used to deliver incendiary weapons or are participating with Syrian government aircraft in attacks using incendiary weapons.” 
HRW claim incendiary weapons have been used at least 18 times over the past nine weeks, including in attacks on rebel-held Aleppo and Idlib last week with at least 12 civilians reported wounded in five of the attacks. 
Russian state media on June 18 also reportedly showed incendiary bombs mounted on Sukhoi Su-34 ground attack aircraft at the Russian airbase in Hmeymim in Syria, HRW said. The Russian air force is the only one currently using this type of aircraft in Syria. 
Russia's Defense Ministry has stated that it does not attack areas where civilians are located. 
The director of HRW's arms division Steve Goose called on the Syrian and Russian governments to immediately stop attacking civilian areas with incendiary weapons” and called on all countries to condemn their use. 
Russia is approaching Chinese companies to join in its bid to revive the Soviet-era Moskvitch car, the Vedomosti business daily reported Thursday, citing two unnamed sources. 
The report comes days after Moscow’s mayor announced plans to bring back the Moskvitch (Muscovite) by nationalizing a Renault majority-owned factory that the French automaker handed over in its exit from Russia. 
Russian truck maker Kamaz is reportedly in talks with its Chinese partner, the state-owned Anhui Jianghuai Automobile Co (JAC), and another unnamed Chinese carmaker to lead production, supplying parts and designs. 
Meanwhile, the Moscow city government, Russia’s Industry and Trade Ministry and Kamaz are also in talks with China’s FAW and BYD carmakers, according to the pro-Kremlin daily Izvestia. 
Kamaz rolled out its Compass truck model using JAC components earlier this year. 
The company is now discussing using JAC’s design, engineering and production platform to assemble the Moskvitch, Reuters reported later Thursday, citing its own sources. 
The revived Moskvitch could reportedly enter production by the end of 2022, although industry experts say the timeframe would be difficult to meet. There are also plans to design an electric-powered version of the classic model. 
Officials hope to launch production of the Moskvitch at the Russian capital’s Avtovaz car plant. 
Renault sold its majority stake in the factory to the Moscow city government in May, in the first major transfer of private assets into state hands after Russia threatened to nationalize Western businesses that had exited the country in protest of its war in Ukraine. 
Russian authorities have arrested employees of a gay club as part of the country’s first criminal extremism” case against members of the LGBTQ+ community, a court in the city of Orenburg said Wednesday. 
Kremlin-aligned conservative activist Yekaterina Mizulina earlier this week announced criminal charges in connection with the LGBTQ+ club Pose’s activities. 
Nationalist, pro-war activists said earlier in March that they helped law enforcement agencies raid Pose on suspicion of spreading LGBT propaganda.” 
Orenburg’s Central District Court ruled Wednesday to place the club’s art director and bar manager in pre-trial detention until May 18. 
The two individuals face up to 10 years in prison if found guilty of organizing extremist activities.” 
A statement on the court’s website describes them both as persons with non-traditional sexual orientations” who support the views and activities of the international LGBT public association banned in our country.” 
The art director was accused of selecting drag artists for performances, and the bar manager of filming these performances. 
The independent news website Mediazona identified the manager as Diana Kamilyanova and the art director as Alexander Klimov. 
Several Russians have faced misdemeanor charges of extremism” in the months since Russia’s Supreme Court banned the international LGBT movement” in November 2023. 
Amnesty International on Tuesday slammed the criminal investigation into Pose’s staff. 
What LGBTI persons and human rights activists have feared since the end of last year has finally come to pass,” Amnesty International’s Russia Director Natalia Zviagina said in a statement. 
Zviagina said it was particularly reprehensible that members of a Russian nationalist group were allowed to assist the police in their raid of the drag show at Pose club.” 
Russia has begun evacuating its citizens who are trapped in the besieged Gaza Strip, according to a statement released by the Emergency Situations Ministry on Sunday. 
"The Emergency Situations Ministry together with Russian diplomats have organized the evacuation of civilians from the Gaza Strip," read the statement, which was published on the messaging app Telegram. 
"Over the past week, the operational group of the Emergency Situations Ministry of Russia has been working to coordinate the procedure and routes for the evacuation of Russian citizens trapped in the area of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict," it continued. 
Nearly 600 Russian citizens are awaiting evacuation from the Gaza Strip, state media reported earlier this month, citing Russian diplomats. 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told journalists on Friday that Moscow was "reservedly optimistic" about the evacuation of its citizens from the densely populated enclave. 
More than 80 Russian citizens have received Israel’s approval to leave Gaza, the state-run RIA Novosti news agency reported this week. 
"Specialists from the Emergency Situations Ministry are providing medical and psychological support to people [crossing the border checkpoint], providing them with food and water," read the Emergency Situations Ministry's statement published on Sunday. 
Authorities noted that Russian nationals fleeing the Gaza Strip into Egypt through the Rafah border crossing would be sent to Cairo, where the Emergency Situations Ministry has established a temporary headquarters to oversee the evacuations. 
More than 60 Russian nationals were confirmed to have crossed the Rafah border checkpoint and entered Egypt, according to a statement released later on Sunday. 
The Gaza Strip has been decimated by an Israeli bombardment campaign launched in response to Hamas' surprise assault in southern Israel on Oct. 7, which saw at least 1,200 people brutally murdered. 
Over 11,000 Palestinians have been killed in the war so far, including more than 4,400 children, according to the Hamas-run Health Ministry in Gaza. 
Moscow on Thursday slammed Poland’s designation of Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism,” calling it part of a targeted Western campaign that has no legal bearing. 
The Polish lower house of parliament, the Sejm, issued the designation in a late Wednesday resolution. It condemns Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and includes a disputed amendment blaming Moscow for the downings of Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 in 2014 and a plane carrying Poland’s then-president in 2010. 
The forms of terror that Russia uses against Ukrainian citizens are crimes against humanity and genocide,” the text reads, as quoted by Ukraine’s Ukrinform news agency. 
The Kremlin dismissed the Sejm’s resolution as continuing anti-Russian derangement.” 
That’s how we’re treating it,” President Vladimir Putin’s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters during a daily briefing. 
Russia’s Foreign Ministry had stronger words for Warsaw’s move, which came nearly a month after the European Parliament adopted its own resolution recognizing Russia as a state sponsor of terrorism.” 
This unfriendly step is part of a targeted information and political campaign the West conducts against our country,” Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova said Thursday. 
Speaking at a weekly briefing, she said the designation has nothing to do with the real situation in the fight against international terrorism.” 
Ukraine has made repeated calls to the international community to declare Russia a terrorist state” over its invasion of the pro-Western country. 
The United States has so far steered clear of placing Russia on its list of state supporters of terrorism. 
The U.S., unlike the EU, has a legal framework to issue such designations, which trigger sanctions and lift U.S. immunity for Russian officials. 
The Russian army said Sunday it had captured a small village in the Kharkiv region of eastern Ukraine. 
"The village of Krakhmalnoye in the Kharkiv region was liberated," the Russian defence ministry said in its daily bulletin on operations in Ukraine, citing "successful active operations." 
Some 45 people lived in the village before Moscow's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022. 
It is some 30 (nearly 20 miles) kilometres southeast of the regional hub of Kupiansk -- an important railway junction that had a pre-war population of around 30,000 people -- which Russian forces have been pushing to take over. 
A spokesperson for Ukrainian land forces, Volodymyr Fitio, interviewed Sunday on Ukrainian television, said the capture of the village had "no strategic importance". 
"These are five houses", he said, adding that Ukrainian forces were still holding the frontline. 
In recent days, authorities in the northeast Kharkiv region had urged residents to evacuate, citing worsening Russian attacks in the area. 
Some 3,000 people were evacuated. 
Russian forces captured swathes of the Kharkiv region shortly after invading Ukraine in February 2022, and have continued to fight there despite losing ground. 
Doctors at a hospital in southern Russia have conducted what they say is Europe’s first surgery with the help of exoskeletons, the state-run lender Sberbank announced on Monday. 
ExoChair, developed with help from Sberbank’s robotics division, is designed to support the lower limbs and pelvic region to help reduce fatigue and improve efficiency among workers who stand for prolonged periods of time. 
The exoskeleton was used by doctors during a 12-hour urological surgery at the Second Regional Clinical Hospital in Russia’s southern city of Rostov-on-Don, the hospital said. 
This is the first experience of using exoskeletons in Russia and Europe to support surgeons, and we consider it to be successful,” Stanislav Kuznetsov, the vice president of Sberbank, said in a statement. 
He said that the ExoChair’s lower price gave it an advantage over its closest competitor in Japan. 
In Monday’s press release, the bank said the passive industrial exoskeleton” was initially intended for Sberbank employees before its designers recognized its wider applications. 
Sberbank said it took the doctors’ advice into account as it plans to improve the device’s usability. 
A union of leading Russian publishers and libraries has created an advisory body that would evaluate books for their compliance with the country’s increasingly repressive legislation, the Vedomosti business daily reported Tuesday. 
The Russian Book Union’s so-called expert center will issue recommendations on individual books, but leave the final decision to pull the books from sale up to the publishers, according to Vedomosti. 
The expert center’s recommendations have already led AST, one of Russia’s largest publishers, to announce Monday that it would suspend sales of three books by U.S. authors James Baldwin and Michael Cunningham, as well as the Russian postmodern writer Vladimir Sorokin, for allegedly containing LGBT propaganda,” which is outlawed in Russia. 
These three titles appeared in a list of 252 books published by Russian journalists in February amid fears that publishers and major online distributors would pull them from shelves out of fear of violating Russia’s LGBT propaganda” law. 
In December, AST suspended the printing and sale of books by popular exiled anti-war authors Boris Akunin and Dmitry Bykov. 
Vedomosti reported that the Russian Book Union had discussed creating the expert council with state media watchdog Roskomnadzor in January 2023. The original idea reportedly envisioned that Russia’s Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Ministry — which is in charge of publishing houses — would oversee the council’s work. 
The expert center currently includes representatives from Roskomnadzor, state-backed military and historical societies and legal and educational professionals as well as Orthodox Christian, Jewish and Muslim faith leaders, according to Vedomosti. 
Russia on Thursday denied reports that it was considering barring its own citizens from renewing passports abroad, a move that would further disadvantage exiled dissidents who fled political persecution. 
The independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta said earlier Thursday that it had obtained a copy of a draft Foreign Ministry decree suspending passport renewals and other consular services for Russians abroad starting May 1. 
This information is absolutely untrue and is blatantly provocative,” the consular department of Russia’s Foreign Ministry said in a statement on its Telegram channel. 
The ministry added that its consular offices and diplomatic missions traditionally pursue a policy of information openness.” 
We inform citizens about planned changes in current legislation and law enforcement practice in the consular and related areas as far in advance and as fully as possible,” it said. 
Novaya Gazeta said it had asked the Foreign Ministry to comment on its alleged draft decree before publication. It attached a scan of its written request for comment sent to Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova on Tuesday. 
The independent Mediazona news website said it and another outlet, Sotavision, received a similar unverified Foreign Ministry document on April 18. The sender reportedly introduced himself as a Foreign Ministry employee but was otherwise unable to verify his identity and has not logged on to his social media account since, Mediazona said. 
The alleged decree resembles the September 2023 move by Russia’s close ally Belarus to ban citizens from renewing their passports abroad in what was widely interpreted as an effort to force exiled dissidents to return. 
Anywhere from 700,000 to 1 million Russians are estimated to have left the country since Moscow invaded Ukraine in 2022 and declared a partial mobilization of reservists that fall. Only 20% have been granted temporary residence permits or political asylum, according to Novaya Gazeta. 
UN figures for 2021 say approximately 10 million Russians live abroad. 
Russia on Saturday denounced a $60 price cap on its oil agreed by the EU, G7 and Australia, even as Ukraine suggested it was not tough enough and might have to be revisited. 
"We will not accept this price cap," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told domestic news agencies, adding that Russia, the world's second-largest crude exporter, was "analyzing" the move. 
The $60 oil price cap will come into effect on Monday or soon after, alongside an EU embargo on maritime deliveries of Russian crude oil. 
The embargo will prevent seaborne shipments of Russian crude to the European Union, which account for two thirds of the bloc's oil imports from Russia, potentially depriving Russia's war chest of billions of euros. 
But while Kyiv welcomed the price cap earlier Saturday, Ukraine President Volodymyr Zelensky said in his evening address that the level set was not "serious" as it would not do enough damage to the Russian economy. 
"Russia has already caused huge losses to all countries of the world by deliberately destabilizing the energy market," he argued in his nightly address, describing the decision on the price cap as "a weak position." 
It is "only a matter of time when stronger tools will have to be used," Zelensky added. 
The G7 nations — Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom and the United States — along with Australia have already said they are prepared to adjust the price ceiling if necessary. 
The cap stops countries paying more than $60 a barrel for Russian oil deliveries by tanker vessel and is designed to make it harder for Russia to bypass EU sanctions by selling beyond the European Union at market prices. 
Limit funds for the 'war machine' 
Zelensky, in his speech, appeared to be backing the position that Poland had tried to hold out for before agreeing to the $60 ceiling late Friday. Warsaw and the Baltic states had argued for a $30 cap. 
The market price of a barrel of Russian Urals crude is currently around $65 dollars, just slightly higher than the $60 cap agreed, suggesting the measure may have only a limited impact in the short term. 
The G7 said it was delivering on its vow "to prevent Russia from profiting from its war of aggression against Ukraine, to support stability in global energy markets and to minimize negative economic spillovers of Russia's war of aggression." 
The White House described the cap as "welcome news" that would help limit Russian President Vladimir Putin's ability to fund the Kremlin's "war machine." 
Russia has threatened to stop deliveries to countries adopting the measure. 
Russia has earned 67 billion euros ($71 billion) from the sale of oil to the European Union since the start of the war in February. 
Its annual military budget amounts to around 60 billion euros ($63 billion), said Phuc-Vinh Nguyen, an energy expert at the Institut Jacques-Delors in Paris. 
The EU embargo on seaborne deliveries follows a decision by Germany and Poland to stop taking Russian oil via pipeline by the end of 2022. 
In all, more than 90 percent of Russian deliveries to the European Union will be hit, according to the bloc. 
'Endure' power cuts 
On the ground, Russian forces carried out strikes in the east of Ukraine on Saturday, hitting a "civilian infrastructure facility" in the eastern city of Kramatorsk, the Ukrainian army said. 
After suffering humiliating defeats during what has become the largest armed conflict in Europe since World War II, Russia began targeting Ukrainian energy infrastructure in October. 
The strikes have caused sweeping blackouts, and cut off water supplies and heating to civilians at a time when the temperature in some regions has dropped to minus five degrees Celsius. 
The authorities have introduced scheduled power cuts several times a day to keep essential infrastructure working. 
In eastern Ukraine, where the fighting is still raging, the governor of Luhansk region, Serhiy Haidai, said the conflict was heavy, "because the Russians had time to prepare." Ukraine's forces were nevertheless slowly moving forward, he added. 
Ukraine's presidency said the situation was also difficult in Bakhmut, in the neighbouring Donetsk region, which Russian forces have been trying to capture since summer. 
On Saturday, the governor of the southern region of Mykolaiv, Vitaly Kim, urged citizens to "endure" the electricity shortages. 
Putin on Friday told Germany's Chancellor Olaf Scholz the Russian strikes, which have destroyed close to half of the Ukrainian energy system, were an "inevitable response to Kyiv's provocative attacks on Russia's civilian infrastructure." 
He was referring in particular to the October attack on a bridge linking Moscow-annexed Crimea to the Russian mainland. 
Putin accused the West of carrying out "destructive" policies in Ukraine, the Kremlin said, stressing that Western political and financial aid meant Kyiv "completely rejects the idea of any negotiations." 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky has ruled out talks with Russia while Putin is in power after the Kremlin claimed to have annexed several Ukrainian regions. 
The Kremlin also said Saturday that Putin would "in due time" visit the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, which he claims to have annexed. But Peskov gave no indication of when this could happen. 
Russia has enlisted over 230,000 additional personnel into the army since the start of the year, Moscow's Deputy Security Council Chairman Dmitry Medvedev said on Thursday. 
Moscow has conducted an aggressive military recruitment campaign this year as it seeks to stave off an ongoing Ukrainian counteroffensive and hold territories it has captured during the conflict. 
"According to the Ministry of Defense, from Jan. 1 to Aug. 3... a total of more than 231,000 people have been accepted for contract service," said Medvedev, who served as president from 2008-2012. 
Last September, President Vladimir Putin announced a "partial" military mobilization — Russia's first since World War II — sending shock waves across the country as thousands of men were drafted into the army. 
Unwilling to announce a second mobilization drive, Moscow has instead opted for a massive PR campaign, hoping to lure Russians with financial incentives. 
Authorities have not disclosed their targets but various estimates say Moscow could be trying to recruit 400,000 volunteers. 
Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said last year the size of Russia's army would be increased to 1.5 million people, as Moscow presses ahead with its offensive in Ukraine. 
Russia on Saturday said it had evacuated almost 4,500 people in the Orenburg region in the southern Urals due to flooding after a dam burst. 
Emergency services worked through the night after a dam burst in the city of Orsk, near the border with Kazakhstan, on Friday. 
The press service of the Orenburg governor said "4,402 people, including 1,100 children" had been evacuated and more than 6,000 homes were affected by the flooding after torrential rain. 
President Vladimir Putin ordered Emergency Situations Minister Alexander Kurenkov to the region, a Kremlin spokesman said late Saturday. 
Authorities also opened a criminal case for "negligence and violation of construction safety rules" over the burst dam, which was built in 2014. 
Authorities said the situation was difficult throughout the region, warning of a dangerous water level on the Ural River in the main city of Orenburg. 
The mayor of the city of half a million people, Sergei Salmin, said authorities would forcibly evacuate people from flooded zones if necessary. 
He said the water level of the Ural River had risen to dangerous levels and would rise further. 
"The situation leaves you no choice. At night, the river can reach a critical level," he said. "I call on everyone in the flooded zone to leave their houses immediately. 
"There is no time for convincing," he added, saying that "those who refuse to leave the danger zone voluntarily, we will forcibly evacuate with the help of police officers." 
Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev said the floods were one of the worst natural disasters in Kazakhstan in 80 years. 
He called for authorities in the Central Asian country to be ready to help those affected. 
Russian emergency services published images of rescue workers going through villages on boats and hovercrafts. 
Several regions in the Urals and western Siberia have been affected by floods since the start of spring. 
A Russian court on Friday extended the pre-trial detention of U.S.-Russian journalist Alsu Kurmasheva until August, nearly a year after she was first charged with spreading "false information" about the army. 
Kurmasheva, who works for Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL), was arrested last year for failing to register as a "foreign agent." 
She was subsequently charged with spreading "false information" under wartime censorship laws that were introduced following Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. She faces up to 15 years in prison. 
A court spokeswoman said Friday that she could not confirm the charges pressed against Kurmasheva since the hearing was closed to the public. 
The deputy spokesperson for the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Daniel Kanigan, told AFP that Washington was "closely following the outcome" of the hearing. 
"The United States condemns these ongoing persecutions, which are a tragedy for the entire people of Russia, who have a constitutionally guaranteed right to freedom of the press," Kanigan said. "Journalism is not a crime." 
Kurmasheva is "a dedicated journalist who is detained for her uncompromising commitment to reporting the truth to the Russian people, regardless of whether the truth makes the Kremlin uncomfortable," he added. 
Kurmasheva, who lived in Prague with her husband and two children, had her U.S. and Russian passports confiscated last June after traveling to Russia for a family emergency. 
She is the second U.S. journalist to be arrested in Russia since Moscow's full-scale invasion. 
Russia is experiencing a shortage of commercial drones amid increased demand from the military and China’s exit from the Russian market, the Kommersant business daily reported Thursday. 
Prices have risen by an average of 30% since Russian troops invaded Ukraine in February, Kommersant reported, citing industry sources. 
Prices for drones used in the oil and gas industry, as well as search and rescue operations, shot up by 200% after China’s DJI, which accounted for 90% of Russia’s consumer drone market, announced it was suspending business in Russia and Ukraine in late April. 
What used to cost around 1 million rubles [$17,500] now sells at more than 3 million rubles [$53,000],” Nikolai Ryashin, CEO of Russia’s drone nest maker Hive. He also predicted that many of the drones could begin to suffer from power issues later in 2022 due to supply chain issues for high-capacity batteries. 
Many commercial drones are sent to aid Russian troops in eastern Ukraine, said Ruslan Pukhov, head of the Moscow-based Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies. Ukraine is also estimated to be using 6,000 commercial drones on the battlefield, repurposed for military needs. 
They’re way more affordable than those produced by the military-industrial complex and can be purchased en masse,” Pukhov told Kommersant. 
Though they’re out of stock in the capital, people are buying up the equipment in other regions.” 
Russian industry sources told Kommersant that the currently available commercial drones are only suitable for surveillance due to their limited payload, battery and flight range. 
A Russian court has fined Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and its Russian-language services for violating the country's foreign agent” law, the U.S.-funded news organization said Wednesday. 
Russia labeled RFE/RL and its regional affiliates as foreign agents” in 2017 in retaliation to the U.S. requiring Kremlin-funded media to register under anti-propaganda laws. This year, RFE/RL said it is facing an existential moment” under crippling fines and threats of prison designed to squeeze the news outlet out of Russia. 
Moscow’s Tverskoy district court ordered RFE/RL and its Russian services' general director Wednesday to pay 1.1 million rubles ($14,400) for failing to label its content as produced by a foreign agent.” 
A second ruling is expected in February, RFE/RL said. 
RFE/RL editor Daisy Sindelar told The New York Times last week that complying with Russia’s foreign agent” labeling requirements would have a disastrous effect on our ability to meaningfully engage with our audiences.” 
The U.S.-funded organization faces up to $5 million in fines, blocked websites and imprisoned employees under Russia’s newly tightened foreign agent” laws. 
Russian state media regulator Roskomnadzor said last month it plans to issue 130 notices of violations against RFE/RL for failing to label its content as produced by a foreign agent.” Each notice could result in fines ranging from 50,000 to half a million rubles. 
A bipartisan group of U.S. lawmakers urged new President Joe Biden last week to impose sanctions on Russia in response to the latest restrictions. 
From today — that’s Thursday the 20th of February — most Chinese citizens will be temporarily blocked from entering Russia as part of Moscow’s latest moves to contain the spread of coronavirus. The ban covers all Chinese citizens traveling to Russia on employment, tourist and student visas. On the line to discuss Russia’s latest moves to stop the coronavirus spread is Alexander Gabuev, chair of the Asia-Pacific program at Carnegie Moscow Center. 
Vladimir Putin fired his long-time advisor Vladislav Surkov this week — the Kremlin’s so-called grey cardinal” who was, until a few weeks ago, Russia’s chief negotiator over the conflict in Eastern Ukraine. On the phone to explain a bit about the man behind the reputation and explore whether Surkov leaving the Kremlin will mean anything for Russia-Ukrainian relations, Mark Galeotti of Honorary Professor at UCL’s School of Slavonic and East European Studies and author of "We Need to Talk about Putin". 
From Russia With News is hosted by Jake Cordell and produced by Pjotr Sauer. The episode was recorded and edited at CM Records Studio in central Moscow. 
Russia's Central Bank on Friday held interest rates unchanged after President Vladimir Putin cautioned against cutting borrowing costs prematurely. 
Moscow last year hiked its key interest rate to 16% to combat a surge in inflation, as the Russian currency wobbled under the pressure of Western sanctions. 
The Central Bank said on Friday it was still too early to start cutting rates, with inflation currently running at an annual rate of 7.8%, above the official 4.0% target. 
"Inflationary pressures are gradually easing but remain high," it said. 
"Inflation will return to the target somewhat more slowly" than it expected in February, it continued, adding that higher rates would also be required for a longer time. 
"We do not rule out maintaining the current key rate until the end of the year," Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina told a press conference after the rate decision. 
Speaking to business leaders on Thursday, Putin had stressed the need to be "careful" over when to start cutting rates. 
"The threat of inflation, as the leaders of the Central Bank say, still hangs over us," the Kremlin leader told a business forum. 
Russia has defied initial expectations of economic collapse amid its military offensive in Ukraine. 
Earlier this month, the International Monetary Fund (IMF) upgraded its forecast for Russia's economic growth in 2024 to 3.2%. 
A surge in defense spending and redirecting energy exports to the likes of China and India have protected the economy but pushed up prices at home. 
Putin pointed to the example of Turkey — which has hiked rates to 50% to battle a crippling inflation crisis — as a cautionary tale. 
"If we go the other way, we may have a situation like that in some neighboring countries, where inflation is double digit... They have crossed some kind of threshold and now cannot deal with it," he told the forum. 
Nabiullina, a key economic ally of Putin, has been credited with keeping the Russian economy on track through emergency rate hikes and capital controls despite an onslaught of Western sanctions. 
Russia’s Finance Ministry submitted a major tax reform plan this week that seeks to introduce a progressive tax system and increase corporations’ contributions to the state budget. 
The reform, if passed, promises to generate nearly 3 trillion rubles ($33.2 billion) per year at a time when government spending on the war in Ukraine continues to soar. 
Amid initial media reports earlier this year that tax reform may be on the horizon, President Vladimir Putin said Russia’s tax system needed an overhaul to make it more fair,” adding that corporations, legal entities and individuals who earn more should contribute more.” 
What are the proposed changes? 
Russia’s income tax rate currently stands at 13% for people earning less than 5 million rubles per year ($55,850) and 15% for those earning more — a levy on higher earners introduced in 2021. 
Under the Finance Ministry’s progressive tax plan, the following annual income brackets would be introduced: 
2.4 million to 5 million rubles — taxed at 15% 
5 million to 20 million rubles — taxed at 18% 
20 million to 50 million rubles — taxed at 20% 
50 million rubles or higher — taxed at 22% 
Russians earning less than 200,000 rubles ($2,200) per month — or 2.4 million ($26,500) annually — would not see any tax hike with the proposed changes. Likewise, the increases would not apply to men fighting in Ukraine, some of whom have seen their salaries balloon over the past two years. 
The average monthly income in Russia for 2024 was 74,854 rubles ($830), according to the state statistics agency Rosstat. In other words, Russians earned on average almost 900,000 rubles ($9,960) last year, less than twice the minimum threshold for the lowest bracket in the progressive scheme. 
According to Finance Ministry estimates, around 2 million people — or 3.2% of Russia’s working population — would see their taxes go up with the progressive plan. For earnings derived from assets like savings, stock shares or other investments, the current rates of 13% or 15% — depending on the amount of earnings — would not change. 
That means Russia’s super wealthy, who make their money largely on investments, capital gains and other forms of passive income such as dividends and real estate, are unlikely to feel much of a direct impact. For this reason, some analysts are calling the progressive tax scheme a tax on wages rather than income. 
The earnings of individuals will be taxed progressively from wages, but not from dividends, interest, and so on — earnings that account for significantly more in the incomes of wealthy citizens,” said Alexander Isakov, Bloomberg’s chief economist for Russia. 
Meanwhile, the corporate tax rate would rise from 20% to 25%. The Finance Ministry says tax revenues from this increase — estimated at 1.6 trillion rubles ($17.7 billion) annually — would go toward state programs that support business, technology and infrastructure projects. 
Analysts at Tinkoff Bank say they expect the corporate tax increase to exert some pressure on the stock market by reducing future dividends and capitalization across various sectors. However, the effect on bond markets is potentially positive,” they say, as the tax hike would help manage the state budget deficit without significantly increasing inflation, thereby reducing long-term interest rate risks for companies. 
Why raise taxes now? 
Overall, the Finance Ministry estimates that its tax reform plan would generate around 2.6 trillion rubles ($29 billion) for the state budget in 2025 — when the changes are expected to take effect. 
The changes are aimed at building a fair and balanced tax system,” Finance Minister Anton Siluanov said, adding that the additional funds would bolster Russia’s economic well-being.” He said the tax hikes will help fund social spending, including state child support and Russia’s pension fund. 
The proposals move Russia further away from the flat income tax rate that was a cornerstone of Putin’s domestic economic policy during his first two decades in power. But the 13% flat rate, introduced in 2001 to combat widespread tax avoidance, was unlikely to remain in place indefinitely, and discussions about changing it have been ongoing for over a decade. 
What really supercharged it was, frankly, financing the war,” Nick Trickett, a senior analyst at S&P Global Commodity Insights, said of the government’s tax reform plan, noting the growing pressure on the state budget due to Western sanctions and the war. 
Government spending has outpaced revenue by hundreds of billions of rubles, pushing the country into annual rare budget deficits. In 2022 and 2023, Russia ran a combined budget deficit of around 6.5 trillion rubles ($71.9 billion). This year, the government has budgeted for a shortfall of 1.6 trillion rubles ($17.7 billion), equivalent to around 0.9% of GDP. 
Moreover, the loss of lucrative energy sales to Europe, combined with the substantial increase in military spending, has forced Russia to dip into its sovereign wealth fund and borrow from state-owned banks to cover the shortfall over the past two years. The Kremlin can no longer lean on oil and gas revenues to the extent that it previously did. 
Surging wages, which rose by 7.3% in 2023 — the largest increase in more than five years — is another issue, said analyst Trickett. 
The degree of labor shortages that became apparent from 2022 onwards because of mobilization and so on has supercharged wage growth,” he told The Moscow Times. People's wages going up means there’s more flexibility to tax them more without there being a lot of blowback.” 
Wages were essentially stagnant in the decade before the full-scale invasion but surged in 2022 due to swelling military spending and labor shortages. 
Raising taxes is also a way to address an overheating economy. With much more money flowing into the economy, prices have also been driven up. Inflation remains stubbornly high in Russia, with prices for April increasing by 7.8% year-on-year, up from 7.7% in the previous month. 
How are businesses reacting? 
Lawmakers in the lower-house State Duma have indicated that they are determined to pass the tax reforms by the end of the current parliamentary session, which was extended earlier this week to Aug. 5. This extension, some speculate, may indicate that the government anticipates a drawn-out discussion over the reforms. 
Business groups are urging lawmakers to hold measured talks about the changes rather than rush the bill through parliament. 
It’s important that all changes take effect from Jan. 1 next year. So that businesses have the opportunity not only to participate in the discussion of amendments to the proposed bill but also to calmly adjust their business plans and take this into account in their planning for the next few years,” said Alexander Kalinin, head of the business association Opora. 
While industry groups will have their chance to weigh in on the discussion in the weeks ahead, analysts say the clear political consensus around the need to bring in more revenues means that the proposed tax increases are guaranteed to pass. 
The political space for business to push back is basically nil,” analyst Trickett said. Everyone knows if the deficit gets too big, it’s going to be really inflationary,” he added, noting the practicality of the move given the Russian government’s prioritization of military spending, which is expected to reach around 40% of all government spending this year. 
If you want to try to beat the West in Ukraine, and part of your competitive advantage is the fact that your industry can turn out shells at one-fifth the cost the West can, then you don’t want that gap to close over time,” he said. 
Authorities in Russia have issued an arrest warrant for the exiled anti-war rapper Oxxxymiron, the independent news website Mediazona reported Thursday. 
Russia’s Justice Ministry designated Oxxxymiron — whose real name is Miron Fyodorov — as a foreign agent” in October 2022, several months after the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
The rapper has organized concerts in support of Ukrainian refugees since leaving Russia shortly after the invasion, which he has called a catastrophe and a crime.” 
Oxxxymiron’s real name and other personal information now show up on the Russian Interior Ministry’s wanted list, which does not disclose the criminal charges against wanted persons. 
The state-run TASS news agency, citing anonymous sources, reported that the rapper is accused of violating laws connected to his foreign agent” status, a crime that is punishable by up to five years in prison. 
If confirmed, Oxxxymiron would be the 15th foreign agent” to face the charges. The rapper himself has not yet commented on the arrest warrant. 
Russian courts previously fined the rapper for failing to label his social media posts with a foreign agent” marker, as well as for discrediting” the Russian military and calling for violations of Russia’s territorial integrity through one of his songs that has since been banned inside the country. 
Russia on Friday labeled a women's organization campaigning for the return of mobilized men from Ukraine and a former pro-peace presidential candidate "foreign agents." 
Moscow uses the label, heavy in Soviet-era connotations, on Kremlin critics to silence dissent. 
Russia's Justice Ministry included the Put’ Domoi (Way Home) movement, which has organized women-led protests in Moscow to bring mobilized men back from Ukraine, in its list of "foreign agents." 
Put’ Domoi has been made up of wives of Russian men mobilized to fight in Ukraine. 
The Justice Ministry said it had worked to create a "negative image" of Russia and the Russian army and called for illegal protests. 
It also labeled one of the movement's leaders, Maria Andreyeva, as a "foreign agent." 
She had become the face of the grassroots movement, which became increasingly uncomfortable for the Kremlin. 
"I do not agree with this," she told AFP of the label, adding: "I will protest this." 
Russian authorities had previously appeared unwilling to target the movement in an apparent bid not to anger relatives and wives of soldiers fighting in Ukraine. 
The women had earlier this year staged rare protests in central Moscow. 
Moscow also included Yekaterina Duntsova, who had tried to run against President Vladimir Putin in a March presidential election, as a "foreign agent." 
Duntsova, who had filed documents to register in the race as an independent candidate, had campaigned on a platform of ending the war in Ukraine. 
She was slapped with the "foreign agent" tag more than two months after the vote, which saw Putin cruise to a fifth term in office unchallenged by any meaningful opposition. 
Duntsova told independent media SOTA — also labeled a "foreign agent" Friday — that the move was "expected" but that the timing was odd. 
"It could have been done during the presidential campaign," she said. 
Duntsova said she will not give up efforts to create a political party but that "it will become a bit harder with self-expression." 
As a "foreign agent," she now cannot run for any office. 
Russia also labeled the media project SOTA, one of the few independent media reporting from Russia, a "foreign agent." 
It said the media had criticized the war in Ukraine and that its employees included "foreign agents" living abroad. 
Marina Litvinovich, a rights campaigner, was also included in the "foreign agent" list. 
Russia has hugely cracked down on dissent since sending troops to Ukraine in February 2022. 
Russian authorities have moved to seize the Russia-based assets of a major vodka producer whose Ukrainian founder was previously accused of funding Kyiv's armed forces. 
Russia’s Prosecutor General’s Office filed a legal suit with a Kursk region court on Tuesday seeking to suspend the work of four distillers belonging to Global Spirits Holding, a multinational company founded by Ukrainian businessman Yevhen Cherniak, over alleged engagement in extremist activities.” 
The distillers listed in the legal suit were Russky Sever, Standart Kachestva, Rodnik i K, and Brand Group Corporation Limited. So, too, were four unidentified defendants mentioned in the case. 
The Kommersant business daily, citing anonymous sources, reported that the Russian authorities want to transfer the shares and stakes of the distillers to the state, as well as to ban their owners from working in Russia. 
In June 2023, Russian investigators charged Global Spirits founder Cherniak with sponsoring terrorism on allegations that he transferred more than 1 billion rubles ($11 million) to the Ukrainian military. Kyiv, meanwhile, has accused Cherniak of paying $157 million to the Russian state in taxes, allegations which the businessman denies. 
Cherniak’s Russian associates Alexander Bespalov and Andrei Lazutin were detained on suspicion of bribery last year. 
The state news agency RIA Novosti, citing anonymous sources, reported Tuesday that the four unidentified defendants in the Kursk region legal suit are Cherniak, Bespalov, Lazutin, as well as a man by the name of Ivan Kurbakov. 
The Kursk region’s Leninsky District Court said the case would be heard behind closed doors. 
Global Spirits previously said it revoked its product and distribution licenses in Russia after the full-scale invasion in 2022 and has filed a lawsuit in Cyprus over the misuse of its intellectual property. 
Since the start of the war, authorities in Russia have sought to nationalize key assets in the country’s defense industry in a bid to command greater control over ramped-up military production. 
However, the sweep in asset seizures has increasingly targeted the civilian economy, with Russia’s largest winemaker and pasta manufacturer recently coming under state control. 
Authorities consider scrapping the flat income tax system, but analysts suspect pre-referendum wheeze. 
June 18, 2020 
Russia is considering a tax hike for top earners to help cover the costs of the coronavirus pandemic and patch a hole in the government’s revenues. 
The plans could see a new 15% income tax rate introduced for those earning more than 2-3 million rubles ($29,000-42,000) annually, Forbes Russia reported Wednesday evening, citing government sources. 
Russia currently has a flat rate of income tax, set at 13%. 
President Vladimir Putin’s spokesperson Dmitry Peskov confirmed Thursday that authorities are discussing various options for raising taxes on wealthy Russians, but no decision has yet been taken. Russia has repeatedly mulled the idea of introducing a progressive income tax in recent years, but never gone ahead with the move. 
This is not the first time a shift to a de facto progressive personal income tax scale is being discussed … the Covid-19 outbreak may have catalyzed the earlier inclinations,” said ING economist Dmitry Dolgin. 
The Russian government is set to run a budget deficit for the first time in three years in 2020, with spending outrunning income by as much as 5% of GDP. 
Around 5% of Russians would fall into the new top income bracket, ING calculated, and an extra 150 billion rubles ($2.2 billion) could be raised through the move. The Finance Ministry is reportedly against changing the system, believing the extra administration around ditching a simple flat tax system is not worth such a modest increase in revenues. Russians currently pay around 4 trillion rubles ($57 billion) in income tax every year. 
Commentators also pointed to the upcoming national referendum on controversial changes to the Russian Constitution which would enable Putin to stay in power until 2036 as a potential factor. 
In his first address to the nation following the outbreak of the coronavirus, Putin signaled that rich Russians and foreign businesses would be asked to shoulder the costs for fighting the virus through higher tax rates on large bank deposits and corporate dividend payments which are sent abroad. Critics condemned the moves as populist at the time. 
The timing of the media leak — during the post-lockdown [period], which may have disproportionately affected the lower-income households, recovery and ahead of the national vote on the constitutional amendments — makes it unclear whether it is intended as an actual tool of economic policy,” said Dolgin. 
New amendments to Russia’s hunting law will effectively legalize trophy hunting of endangered animals, Greenpeace activists said Monday. 
Russia is home to 13 endangered species: the Amur tiger, Central Asian and Far Eastern leopard, snow leopard, bison, saiga, Przewalski's horse, Altai mountain sheep, gazelle, polar bear, Siberian crane, bowhead whale and gray whale. 
According to the amendments, which enter into force Monday, the killing of rare and endangered species listed in Russia’s Red Book is permissible in exceptional cases.” The amendments also note that animals may only be hunted for research and education or for the purpose of acclimatization, resettlement and hybridization of hunting resources.” 
While the amendments forbid actions "that can lead to the death, reduction in the number or violation of the habitat" of Red Book species, Greenpeace says that the language used effectively lifts the ban on killing these species where the law previously only allowed their capture. 
If shooting used to be expressly prohibited in the old hunting law, now there is no such thing,” Mikhail Kreindlin, the head of Greenpeace Russia’s program for specially protected areas, told the Govorit Moskva radio station. 
We believe that the hunting lobby in the [lower-house State] Duma asked for these amendments in order to be able to hunt Red Book animals under the guise of hunting for scientific purposes,” he added, saying that Russia's elite could simply pay scientists off to justify their hunting. 
The amendments were authored by State Duma deputies Vladislav Reznik, head of the committee on natural resources; Nikolai Valuev, first deputy chairman of the committee on ecology and environmental protection; Nikolai Nikolayev and Maxim Shchablykin. 
According to the Kommersant business daily, Reznik is a member of the elite Mountain Hunters' Club.” The clubm headed by former FSB special forces officer Eduard Bendersky, previously requested five permits to hunt the Putorana snow sheep, a rare species listed in the Red Book. 
Other environmental activists disputed Kreindlin's claims that the amended hunting law would enable unhindered trophy hunting, however. 
The wording does not fundamentally change anything, because the issuance or non-issuance of permits will depend not on scientists, but on [state environmental watchdog] Rosprirodnadzor,” Vladimir Krever, the scientific director of WWF Russia's biodiversity conservation program, told Kommersant. Although, of course, the old wording, when the hunting of Red Book species is absolutely prohibited, is better.” 
An anti-war activist has died in police custody in southern Russia after receiving death threats from law enforcement officials, his lawyer told the OVD-Info human rights monitor late Wednesday. 
Anatoly Berezikov, 40, was detained last month on suspicion of hanging pro-Ukrainian leaflets in the city of Rostov-on-Don, some 60 kilometers south of eastern Ukraine’s Donetsk region. 
The leaflets advertised an intelligence hotline for Russian servicemen seeking to surrender to the Ukrainian armed forces. 
Berezikov’s lawyer Irina Gak said she witnessed medical personnel loading the activist’s body into a vehicle Wednesday while she was trying to gain access to him. 
Gak said the guards at the detention center where Berezikov was held had told her he was not in the facility at the time. 
An on-duty officer later told OVD-Info that Berezikov had committed suicide.” 
Gak said Berezikov had faced intimidation, threats and violence from law enforcement officials during his detention. 
The lawyer said she noticed taser marks on Berezikov’s body on the eve of his death. 
Authorities were preparing to charge Berezikov with treason, according to the human rights project Perviy Otdel. 
It said Berezikov’s three consecutive detentions after serving administrative sentences on misdemeanor charges fit a pattern that often [precedes] the initiation of treason cases.” 
The mayor of the Russian Arctic city of Norilsk on Monday announced his resignation after accusing regional officials of massively underreporting coronavirus figures. 
Rinat Akhmetchin, mayor of the Siberian city located 300 kilometers (186 miles) north of the Arctic Circle, announced his departure during a briefing. 
His resignation came as President Vladimir Putin on Monday boasted that Russia's virus situation is improving and numbers of cases and deaths are far lower than in many European countries. 
Akhmetchin last week sent a letter to regional officials accusing the regional health ministry of "concealing real information about the numbers of those ill from federal agencies," Siberian news site Tayga.Info reported. 
He claimed that there had been 832 confirmed cases in Norilsk while the regional health ministry gave the figure of 293. 
He also complained hospitals lacked staff and patients were waiting for hours in corridors, the Siberian news site reported. 
Akhmetchin said Monday that he resigned after regional officials at a meeting put the blame on him for failings. 
"I didn't lie and I never wanted to lie, all the information I gave came from official sources," said the 55-year-old who has headed the city since 2017. 
The regional health ministry said Monday that there have been 436 cases of coronavirus confirmed by testing in Norilsk. 
It said the situation in Norilsk "had stabilized" in the last week and there were enough hospital beds. 
Built on permafrost, Norilsk is one of the northernmost cities in the world. For more than a month each year, the sun never rises. It had many Gulag prison camps in the Soviet era. 
Lockdown measures have been extended till Aug. 9 over the whole of the Krasnoyarsk region, one of the worst-hit. 
It has confirmed 11,528 cases and 260 deaths. 
The Norilsk mayor was already under pressure as he faces a criminal charge of negligence over a fuel spill near the city last month that saw thousands of tonnes of diesel leak into soil and waterways. 
He faces up to six months in prison if convicted over the spill, which environmentalists say is the largest to have ever hit the Arctic region. 
Norilsk is a highly polluted city and the leak was from a power plant owned by a subsidiary of Norilsk Nickel metals giant. 
Russian forces are advancing on all fronts in Ukraine and have seized some 880 square kilometers of territory this year alone, Defense Minister Andrei Belousov said on Friday. 
If confirmed, Russia would have made more gains in the past five months than in all of 2023, when the front line remained largely static despite a Ukrainian counter-offensive in the summer. 
"The advance is underway in all tactical areas. In general, 880 square kilometers of territory have come under the control of the Russian army this year," Belousov said at a meeting of the Moscow-led CSTO security alliance in Almaty, according to Russian news agencies. 
Russian forces have also pushed Ukraine eight to nine kilometers back in the northeastern Kharkiv region, where they poured across the border on May 10 in a surprise land offensive, Belousov said. 
"Thanks to the courageous and professional actions of our servicemen, 28 settlements have been liberated this month," he added. 
Ukraine has come under intense pressure since Russia launched its new offensive on Kharkiv, rushing reinforcements to the region while ceding ground on other areas of the front line. 
Moscow is seeking to take advantage of manpower shortages and delays in U.S. military aid to Kyiv. 
Ukraine's top general said last week that Russian troops were "bogged down" trying to capture the northeastern border town of Vovchansk, but added that they were putting intense pressure on Ukraine's army in the east. 
Ekaterina Martynova, the editor of the independent student media outlet Doxa, discusses censorship in Russia since the invasion of Ukraine, anti-war sentiment and Russian media in exile. 
This lecture at Bologna University is part of a series of lectures organized by The Moscow Times at European universities and given by Russian media professionals. 
There were gems amid the cancellations and closures. 
The year 2020 began as usual for the music world in Russia, but came to screeching halt in March. Music lovers had to be content with live-streamed performances, musicians languished and the fate of large orchestras and their future contracts with soloists became uncertain. The Mariinsky Theater in St. Petersburg, led by Valery Gergiev, was the first to open in July, followed by other concert halls and theaters in August. And they have not stopped working despite changes seating arrangements and audience limits (currently set at 25%). 
Although the season was abbreviated, there were some memorable performances and concerts this year, starting with Mikhail Pletnev’s recitals as a soloist with Russian National Orchestra, for which Pletnev serves as artistic director. The concerts, held in Moscow and St Petersburg in October, were a rare treat for melomanes; Pletnev hadn’t performed in St Petersburg in 16 years. His performance was unique, making Beethoven’s well-known 3rd Piano Concerto sound like something the audience had never heard before. 
Another highlight was Vladimir Jurowski’s recent performances with the Svetlanov State Symphony Orchestra in St Petersburg and Moscow. Jurowski, the artistic director of the Svetlanov Orchestra, prepared two excellent programs: the first was Beethoven’s Seventh Symphony and selections from Wagner’s Die Götterdämmerung Suite; and the second was Strauss (selections from Der Rosenkavalier and the Violin Concerto) and Mozart. Jurowski also led the Seventh Another Space Contemporary Music Festival, where he conducted an outstanding program of modern Russian composers. 
The audience at that festival also had a rare chance to hear the internationally renowned contemporary music group Ensemble Intercontemporain based in Paris. The French musicians were ecstatic to have the chance to play to a live audience as European theaters were subjected to another series of lockdowns. 
Anna Netrebko gave several sold-out appearances in Russia before and after being hospitalized with Covid. She performed in Verdi’s Don Carlos (Bolshoi and Mariinsky), Il Trovatore, and Eugene Onegin. And at the Mariinsky she took part in a memorable and moving evening of Russian romances dedicated to the late Dmitry Khvorostovsky. 
The year is ending with a magnificent staging of Wagner’s tetralogy of The Ring Cycle conducted by Valery Gergiev at the Mariinsky Theater in December. At the moment it is the only opportunity in Russia to see the whole cycle, and one of the few places in the world where Wagner is being performed. 
A Russian court on Thursday once again extended the detention of U.S.-Russian journalist Alsu Kurmasheva. 
Kurmasheva, a Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty (RFE/RL) journalist, was arrested last year for failing to register as a "foreign agent." 
Her employer says she has also been charged with spreading "false information," which carries a potential jail term of up to 15 years. 
At Thursday's closed-door hearing, Kurmasheva's lawyers had asked that she be released from house arrest, pending trial. 
A court in the city of Kazan said it had ruled to keep her in pre-trial detention until April 5. 
"Russian authorities are conducting a deplorable criminal campaign against the wrongfully detained Alsu Kurmasheva," RFE/RL President Stephen Capus said in a statement. 
He said Kurmasheva had been "imprisoned and treated unjustly simply because she is an American journalist." 
Kurmasheva, who before her arrest lived in Prague with her husband and two children, had her U.S. and Russian passports confiscated in June after traveling to Russia for a family emergency. 
In October, she was arrested for failing to register as a "foreign agent." 
Kurmasheva was subsequently accused of spreading "false information" about Russia's war in Ukraine, according to RFE/RL. 
Her lawyers and family have denied the charges and called for her immediate release. 
Kurmasheva is the second U.S. journalist to be arrested in Russia over the past year. 
Wall Street Journal reporter Evan Gershkovich is also being held in pre-trial detention in Moscow on espionage charges that carry a maximum sentence of 20 years in prison. 
He too has denied the charges. 
RFE/RL is pushing for the United States to designate Kurmasheva "wrongfully detained," which would grant extra diplomatic support from Washington to secure her release. 
The U.S. State Department said last year that Kurmasheva's arrest "appears to be another case of the Russian government harassing U.S. citizens." 
Russian Defense Minister Sergey Shoigu announced that on Friday that the partial mobilization campaign declared to boost the Russian military campaign in Ukraine has come to an end. 
"The dispatch of citizens called up during mobilization was completed today. The notification of citizens [to report for military duty] has ended," the state-run RIA Novosti quoted Shoigu as saying in a report to Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
Russia had met the goal initially set by Putin and had mobilized a total of 300,000 reservists during the five week-long campaign, Shoigu said. 
The total number of the mobilized reportedly includes 1,300 government employees of various levels and over 27,000 business owners. 
"13,000 citizens expressed the desire to fulfill their duty … as volunteers. The average age of mobilized citizens was 35 years old," the minister said. 
To date, 82,000 mobilized reservists have already been sent to the frontlines in Ukraine, while the remainder are still undergoing military training, according to Shoigu. 
"I want to thank them for doing their duty [to the state], for their patriotism, for their steadfast determination to defend our country, our Russia, and therefore their home, their family, our citizens, our people,” RIA quoted Putin as saying in response to Shoigu’s report. 
Russia began its partial mobilization campaign on Sept. 21. Though the initial presidential decree on mobilization did not specify the number of reservists the Kremlin sought to mobilize, Shoigu has previously put the number at 300,000 people. 
Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu visited the war zone in Ukraine to inspect a command post and captured Western military hardware, the army said Friday. 
Footage published by the Defense Ministry showed Shoigu boarding a helicopter, meeting with officers and inspecting a Swedish armored combat vehicle captured by Russian forces. 
The footage also showed Shoigu in uniform listening to a report presented by Lieutenant General Andrei Mordvichev, the head of Russia's Central Military District and Center Grouping of Forces in Ukraine. 
According to Russia’s Defense Ministry, Shoigu received an update on the situation on the frontline and "thanked commanders and soldiers... for successful offensive operations" in Lyman in eastern Ukraine. 
The date and specific location of Shoigu’s visit were not specified. 
Shoigu last visited the front at the end of June after a botched mutiny by Wagner group leader Yevgeny Prigozhin and his mercenaries. 
Russian director Kirill Serebrennikov, competing for the Palme d'Or at Cannes, brandished a picture of two theater artists who went on trial in Moscow on Monday. 
"They did absolutely nothing wrong, they just put on a show and they have already been in prison for a year," Serebrennikov told reporters at the film festival. 
The arrest of director Yevgeniya Berkovich and writer Svetlana Petriychuk in May last year shook Russia's artistic community, already facing an increasingly repressive environment since the 2022 invasion of Ukraine. 
The women have been accused of justifying terrorism in their 2021 play about Russian women lured to marry Islamic State militants in Syria and tried for terrorism on their return. It was awarded two prestigious Golden Mask awards. 
Serebrennikov, who has competed multiple times at the Cannes Film Festival, left Russia after the invasion. 
His new movie, "Limonov: The Ballad," is an English-language portrayal of a radical Soviet poet starring British actor Ben Whishaw. 
Serebrennikov told reporters in Cannes that Berkovich is one of his former students "and she is in prison for completely invented accusations." 
"This is the real consequence of the law on foreign agentism," he added, referring to recent laws aimed at identifying Russian civil society groups that are financed from abroad. 
A late-night Russian strike on the northeastern Ukrainian region of Kharkiv killed two people, the region's governor said Friday, as both Moscow and Kyiv reported a wave of overnight aerial attacks. 
Kharkiv region Governor Oleh Syniehubov said Russia launched a "series of shelling" attacks on the town of Kupyansk, close to the front lines, late on Thursday night. 
"Houses and cars were damaged. A 36-year-old man was rescued from the rubble. A 64-year-old woman and a 58-year-old man died," he wrote on the messaging app Telegram. 
A separate missile attack on a residential area in the town of Chuguiv, also in the Kharkiv region, injured seven, the governor added. 
"Russians shelled Chuguiv with S-300 air defense systems. It hit the ground in a residential area and smashed windows in a nine-story apartment building," Syniehubov said. 
The governor posted a picture of stores with their windows blown out and a crater in a road next to an apartment block. 
Ukraine's air force said Russia launched 37 Iranian-designed Shahed kamikaze drones and three missiles against its territory overnight. 
"As a result of combat operations, 33 Shaheds were shot down in the Kirovograd, Odesa, Kherson, Mykolaiv and Kharkiv regions," it said in a post on Telegram. 
Meanwhile, in Moscow, the Russian Defense Ministry said it intercepted 16 Ukrainian drones in the early hours of Friday. 
Fifteen were destroyed over the southern Volgograd region, the closest part of which is just over 100 kilometers from the border with Ukraine. 
Another Ukrainian drone was shot down over the western Belgorod border region, the Russian Defense Ministry said. 
Oil production cuts outweighed recent recovery in other parts of economy. 
July 15, 2020 
The Russian economy contracted by 9.5-10% in the second quarter, the Central Bank estimated in a new report Wednesday. 
The country’s economic recovery will be gradual, lengthy and uneven,” with the spillover effects of disruptions to production and supply chains still expanding, the bank added. 
Many sectors of the economy reached their nadir in April and started to recover in May, with the easing of restrictions following Russia’s six-week lockdown imposed at the end of March. However, the Bank said drastic cuts to oil production as part of the OPEC+ deal designed to prop up global oil prices outweighed” growth in other parts of the economy. 
Russia slashed its oil output by around 2.5 million barrels a day, or more than a fifth, under the terms of the April agreement with Saudi Arabia and a host of other oil-producing countries. 
The International Monetary Fund (IMF) expects Russia’s economy to shrink by 6.6% this year — less than some of the worst-hit countries in western Europe which are facing double-digit contractions. 
Russia’s Central Bank will decide next week on what to do with interest rates, which it slashed to a record low of 4.5% in June in a bid to stoke Russia’s economic recovery. Inflation is set to stay well below the Bank’s 4% target, with governor Elvira Nabiullina having signalled to the market that interest rates are likely to be cut again in 2020. 
Recovery will be among the world’s slowest. 
July 16, 2020 
The Russian economy will not return to its pre-coronavirus level until the end of 2024, analysts at the Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) forecast. 
Russia will be one of the slowest recovery stories in the world, the EIU predicts, with all the other BRICS nations — Brazil, India, China and South Africa — expected to recover faster. 
Of the G7 advanced economies, only Japan — which has seen perennially low growth rates for the last two decades — will match Russia in terms of the weakness of its recovery, with both finally hitting pre-coronavirus levels in the final quarter of 2024. 
Japan is a rich, developed country that will be able to weather the economic crisis. However, less affluent countries such as Brazil, Russia and South Africa will find themselves in a much more precarious situation,” the report said. 
The EIU believes that Russia’s economy shrank by more than 15% in the second quarter of 2020 — more than the Central Bank’s estimate of a 10% contraction. 
The Russian government has delayed its flagship $360 billion national economic development plan by six years in the wake of the coronavirus — a signal that goals such as faster economic growth, lower poverty and higher investment were unattainable by the original 2024 target. 
A faster recovery could also be thwarted by government frugality. Bloomberg reported Wednesday that the Kremlin is looking to cut spending from around $322 billion in 2020 to $280 billion in 2021, in order to start restoring the government’s balance sheet after the coronavirus hit. 
A Russian pro-war activist has accused the governor of a region 3,000 kilometers from Moscow of discrediting” the military’s actions in Ukraine during a Q&A session, media reported Sunday. 
Khanty-Mansiisk autonomous district Governor Natalia Komarova said We didn’t need” Russia’s 2022 invasion of Ukraine when asked about ill-equipped troops during a meeting with constituents Saturday. 
Local activist Yury Ryabtsev filed a petition asking Russia’s Interior Ministry to launch a criminal probe into Komarova, according to the RFE/RL regional affiliate Sibir.Realii. 
Fifth column enemies of the SVO [special military operation] are awaiting their punishment,” Ryabtsev said in a social media post, the outlet said. 
The Kremlin has sought total loyalty as it pursues what it calls a special military operation” in Ukraine, which is entering its 20th month. 
The Khanty-Mansiisk regional administration said Monday that Komarova’s words were taken out of context and that she supports the Russian troops. 
Russia did not prepare for a war with the West and was not interested in the conflict with Ukraine,” the administration said in a statement carried by local radio. 
This is exactly what the President [Vladimir Putin] has repeatedly said: an economic and sanctions war has been declared against us, while the Kyiv regime is also carrying out a physical extermination.” 
The Interior Ministry has not indicated as of Monday afternoon whether it planned to investigate Komarova’s statement. 
Russia has launched thousands of misdemeanor cases for discrediting” the Russian army since lawmakers outlawed the act days after Moscow's troops rolled into Ukraine in February 2022. 
Repeat offenders risk being jailed for up to seven years, while those convicted of spreading false information” — another crime under Russia's wartime censorship laws — face up to 15 years in prison. 
Sonya Groysman and Olga Churakova were among the first Russian journalists to be labeled foreign agents” in Russia. In their lecture, they argue that this status is used to marginalize people and makes it impossible for a full-time journalist to work in Russia. 
In his introductory remarks, lawyer Maxim Krupsky discusses how Russia’s foreign agents” legislation has been tightened over the past 11 years. 
This lecture at Tufts University is part of a series of talks by media professionals and experts on Russia organized by The Moscow Times at leading universities and research centers around the world. 
Russia’s largest IT companies fear being left unable to operate as a result of severe equipment shortages sparked by Western sanctions, media outlet Kommersant reported Monday. 
Russian social media platform Vkontakte (VK) and tech giant Yandex have both reported difficulties sourcing new equipment, particularly computer servers. 
VK has called on Russia’s Digital Development Ministry for help purchasing tens of thousands of servers,” essential for the company’s continued operations, Kommersant reported. 
Key vendors of Russian computer parts including Hewlett Packard, Dell and IBM, have suspended their operations within the country following Russia’s invasion of Ukraine on Feb 24. 
In a statement, Russia’s Digital Development Ministry claimed that they were seeing few disruptions” due to sanctions. 
[The Ministry] is taking measures to provide the public sector and commercial companies with a sufficient amount of Russian computer equipment that meets the highest requirements," it said. 
Analysts told Kommersant that Russia still had some available processors produced by domestic tech company Baikal Electronics. 
But Maxim Koposov, director of Russian computer equipment manufacturer Promobit, warned the newspaper that even these stocks were beginning to run low. 
We took the path of manufacturing servers with Russian processors, but they are also tight right now,” he said. 
Hamas’ deadly October 7 attack against Israel and the subsequent assault on Gaza by the Israeli Defense Force (IDF) has ostensibly divided the world into two adversarial camps: those who support Israel and those who support Palestine. Russian liberal media — most of which fled the country to escape wartime censorship and persecution — have almost unanimously adopted a pro-Israeli stance, portraying Israel’s response to Hamas’ attack as wholly necessary and justified, all the while glossing over context that is crucial for understanding the latest outbreak of hostilities. 
On Russian-language social media, the geopolitical players in the conflict have been polarized — with an axis of evil” and barbarians” on the one side, and on the other, representatives of European civilization.” Any discussions of October 7 usually avoid delving into the broader Middle Eastern context. 
This black-and-white, emotionally charged perspective was widespread across many Russian liberal media outlets during the October 7 attack and in the days that followed, when the atrocities perpetrated by Hamas came to light. To some extent, this is understandable and even human. However, it soon became clear that many independent Russian media outlets were simply echoing statements made by the Israeli government. 
Since the start of the crisis, Israeli officials have invoked biblical dichotomies between children of light” and children of darkness” in describing their country’s war with Hamas. They depict Israel as the righteous heir to the ancient Hebrews and their divinely sanctioned battles against wicked” nomadic tribes, thus framing the contemporary conflict in moral terms of good” versus evil.” 
Using these narratives to justify military action against the small coastal enclave of Gaza is nothing new. For decades, such statements — especially from the far-right coalition currently in power — have been used to back Israeli expansionist policies. Since October 7, rhetoric that was once meant for a local audience has now gained international attention. And among Israeli officials, this rhetoric has escalated into alarming calls for Gaza’s full-scale destruction. 
But instead of examining the complex history and politics at the heart of the crisis in Israel and Palestine, Russian liberal media have doubled down on a simplistic framing. Venerated liberal pundits like Yulia Latynina or Leonid Gozman pontificated about flourishing free democracies” (i.e. Israel) that find themselves defenseless against the new barbarians” and the axis of evil” — that is, Russia, Iran, North Korea, and radical Islamic militant groups. TV Rain presenter Yekaterina Kotrikadze mocked climate activist Greta Thunberg’s support for Palestine, arguing that when it comes to the war in Gaza, everyone knows who the barbarians are, and who represents civilization.” 
Even experts from The Insider, an independent investigative news outlet, have succumbed to a reductive narrative of good” versus evil.” They describe Western officials who support Israel as the responsible adults” in the room while dismissing international organizations that recognize Israel as an apartheid state as propaganda platforms” that are biased toward the Muslim-Arab bloc.” Zeev Hanin, The Insider's chief political analyst, questioned these organizations’ commitment to human rights and even downplayed the existence of Palestinian nationhood and the humanitarian crisis in Gaza by placing these terms in quotation marks. The fact that prominent Israeli human rights groups share the view that their country is an apartheid state was conveniently omitted in his analysis. 
Double standards persist when Russian liberal media report casualty figures from Gaza’s Health Ministry. They emphasize that Hamas controls the ministry and therefore the figures cannot be trusted. How can one cite a source called the Ministry of Something-or-Other of Hamas?” Ekho Moskvy host Ksenia Larina asked during a livestream. These pundits do not seem to realize that the ministry’s data has proven to be reliable in the past, nor do they engage with the fact that reputable Western news agencies regularly cite Gaza Health Ministry death toll data in their reporting. 
Meanwhile, liberal Russian media fail to inform their audiences that Israeli sources can also suffer from bias. The IDF has been caught lying, obscuring data, as well as changing its version of events when confronted with evidence from witnesses or the press. While liberal pundits might briefly mention Israeli military censorship, they do not examine its impact on Israeli democracy or how it shapes the public’s perception of the war. This lack of scrutiny is particularly concerning as Israel and Egypt prohibit international journalists from entering Gaza, where at least 105 reporters have been killed since the start of the conflict in October. 
At the same time, Russian liberal news outlets almost exclusively platform pro-Israeli experts, while Palestinian perspectives and Israeli anti-war voices are noticeably absent. 
This creates the false impression that the Israeli public is unanimous in its support of the government’s handling of the military operation in Gaza. By focusing solely on these views, the media obscures legitimate criticism of Israel and its dangerous shift toward militant nationalism, which is evident in lynching attempts and persecution of dissenters. This one-sided approach in coverage also marginalizes opinions advocating for non-violent solutions. 
Reporting by Russian liberal media regularly conflates Palestinian citizens with Hamas. During a discussion on TV Rain about pro-Palestinian protests in Europe and the United States, political analyst Vladimir Pastukhov said that when we say ‘Palestinians,’ we mean ‘Hamas,’ and when we say ‘Hamas,’ we mean ‘Palestinians.’ Let's not deceive ourselves.” The TV Rain host, Kotrikadze, agreed. Reducing the diverse spectrum of pro-Palestinian activism by casting them all as Hamas supporters — and equating all Palestinian people with Hamas — represents a profound intellectual lapse. 
The framing of the war in Gaza by Russian liberal media as solely a confrontation between Israel and Hamas is yet another problematic aspect of their coverage. Not only does it ignore the unprecedented humanitarian crisis that has emerged as a result of the conflict, it also ignores how the IDF regularly targets civilians and civilian infrastructure, crippling the medical system, destroying residential districts, and erasing centuries-old mosques. 
These actions do not reflect a conflict merely between a military force and a terrorist group. Israel’s insistence — which is parroted by Russian liberal media — that Hamas has embedded itself among civilians and is using them as human shields fails to justify the tens of thousands of women and children who have been killed in Israeli attacks. 
Moreover, the conflict is asymmetrical, pitting a modern, heavily equipped military force against what is essentially a cobbled-together militia. It is also economically lopsided. Israel has the 28th-largest economy in the world, while Gaza is a region plagued by staggering unemployment and poverty, a problem compounded by Hamas’ corruption. Eighty percent of the population relies on international humanitarian aid — and even before the current humanitarian crisis, Gaza experienced severe shortages of essential goods. 
Failing to explain Israel’s outsized role in perpetuating this asymmetry leaves viewers and readers unable to understand the true nature of the conflict. Israel’s blockade of Gaza is cited by both the World Bank and the UN as the main reason for the small enclave’s dire living conditions. An already grim situation is further exacerbated by Israel’s offensive, leading to starvation and mass displacement. 
Lastly, Israel’s role in strengthening Hamas cannot be overlooked. As part of his strategy to weaken the Palestinian Authority and divide Gaza from the West Bank politically and economically, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu allowed Qatari funds to reach Hamas. Bezalel Smotrich, now Netanyahu’s finance minister, openly described Hamas as an asset and the Palestinian Authority in the West Bank as a burden. By empowering Hamas, Israel has hindered progress toward the establishment of an independent Palestinian state. 
The framing chosen by Russian liberal media erases this crucial context. Notable exceptions include Meduza, which featured an interview with the Israeli historian Benny Morris, and the youth news website Doxa, which faced backlash from liberal voices for consistently providing the historical and political background to the October 7 attack and the subsequent escalation of the crisis. 
The frustrating presentism that ignores historical context and treats each new episode of violence in Palestine or Israel as an isolated incident obscures the systemic nature of Israeli occupation. It silences the ongoing struggles of Palestinians living under apartheid or blockade, as well as the toll that this cycle of violence ultimately takes on Israeli citizens. 
Where does a discourse devoid of historical and political context leave us? It sets us up to view events as part of a perpetual clash of East and West, barbarians” against civilization,” and good” versus evil.” Attacks like the one on Oct. 7, viewed outside a historical lens, are akin to natural disasters — unforeseeable and inevitable. This perspective fosters a hopeless, bloodthirsty worldview, refreshing an endless cycle of violence. A narrative that erases the history leading up to October 7 guarantees that such atrocities will be replayed over and over, ensnaring everyone in an endless loop of recurring catastrophes. 
Understanding and analyzing the causes that led to these atrocities does not mean condoning the actions of the groups that orchestrated and committed these horrific crimes. However, without this analysis, no meaningful discussion about the future is possible. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Mourners and soldiers on Saturday laid flowers at a new statue of Yevgeny Prigozhin, a pro-Kremlin mercenary who staged a mutiny and died in a plane crash, at his grave in Saint Petersburg. 
Prigozhin was head of the Wagner private militia, which fought alongside Russian troops in Ukraine, capturing the city of Bakhmut in a grinding months-long assault. 
He staged a 24-hour mutiny last June, seizing Russian military command buildings in the southern city of Rostov and marching on Moscow in a bid to oust the country's military leaders. 
In voice messages published to social media, he had raged daily against what he said was corruption and mismanagement of the offensive by bureaucrats in Russia's Defense Ministry and General Staff. 
Two months later, after backing down and being scolded as a traitor by President Vladimir Putin, he died in a plane crash. 
On Saturday, when he would have turned 63, a bronze statue of Prigozhin was unveiled at his grave in Saint Petersburg's Porokhovskoye cemetery. 
Mourners, including soldiers wearing Wagner insignia, some with their faces covered, laid flowers at the feet of the statue, an AFP reporter saw. 
A makeshift memorial to Prigozhin, who was popular among his troops and supported by many of Russia's pro-offensive military bloggers, has stood for months in Moscow close to the Kremlin. 
He was initially buried in a secret funeral following the plane crash. 
Putin, who said grenade fragments were found in the plane's wreckage, called Prigozhin after his death a "talented" man who had made "serious mistakes." 
The Kremlin has denied involvement in the crash. 
Putin last month removed long-time defense chief Sergei Shoigu, who had been the target of Prigozhin's criticism, and several senior military figures have been arrested on corruption charges. 
Authorities in St. Petersburg said the Russian military has opened collection points for musical instruments for Russian soldiers in Ukraine to boost morale. 
The Russian Defense Ministry has organized the collection and transfer of musical instruments to the mobilized [and] military personnel performing special tasks who have no professional musical education,” reads a message posted by one of the city’s municipal districts Friday. 
Donors are asked to leave accordions, balalaikas, harmonicas and guitars at military museums across Russia’s second-largest city. 
The donations aim to support morale, unity, inspire heroic deeds and moral and psychological relief” among the Russian troops. 
Musical instruments are the latest items to be crowdsourced for members of the Russian Armed Forces. 
Almost immediately following Russia's invasion of Ukraine in February, officials have been widely reported soliciting civilian help in supplying troops with medicine, consumer devices and even tactical gear. State employees including teachers have been reportedly asked to donate parts of their salaries to the war effort. 
Observers link the scale of largely grassroots donations with widespread support for the war among the Russian population despite international condemnation. 
Russia’s military has routinely dismissed the frequent reports of equipment and supply shortages. 
A rockfall has trapped more than a dozen miners in a mine in the far east of Russia, and the Kremlin on Tuesday said it was making every effort to rescue them. 
Thirteen miners are believed to be under the rubble of the Pioneer mine in the Amur region, one of Russia's largest gold mines in terms of processing capacity, Russian state-run agencies reported. 
"The president gave the order to take all necessary measures to save the miners who are now blocked," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. 
Earlier, Russia's emergency situations ministry said rescue teams — including mountain rescuers from a nearby region — were working on the site, where the rockfall occurred Monday. 
It published footage showing a helicopter landing on snowy tarmac and a column of rescuers in orange vests walking. 
Accidents at Russian mines and factories are relatively common, with an often lax approach to safety measures. 
The large Amur region lies in the Far East of Russia, bordering China. 
Russia fired a combined 100 missiles and drones at Ukraine overnight in a barrage that targeted energy sites across the country, Ukrainian officials said on Saturday. 
Russia has launched dozens of aerial attacks at Ukraine's power facilities throughout the war, causing significant damage and energy shortages as Ukraine's stretched air defenses struggle to repel the waves of drones and missiles. 
"The enemy launched 53 missiles of various types and 47 attack drones," Ukraine's Air Force said, adding that it shot down 35 of the missiles and all but one of the drones. 
Two thermal power plants were damaged in the attack, the DTEK power operator said, without specifying where they were located. 
"It was another extremely difficult night for the Ukrainian energy sector. The enemy struck two of our thermal power plants. The equipment was seriously damaged," the company said in a statement on Telegram. 
It was the sixth major attack on DTEK thermal power plants since mid-March, it added. 
Ukraine's Energy Minister German Galushchenko said Russia had targeted sites in five regions — Donetsk, Dnipropetrovsk, Kirovohrad, Ivano-Frankivsk and Zaporizhzhia — stretching from near the eastern frontlines to Ukraine's west, which borders the EU. 
The ministry warned that power restrictions were likely on Saturday evening as a result of the attacks. 
President Volodymyr Zelensky said Moscow was trying to "exploit" a lack of "determination" among Ukraine's key Western backers and repeated his call for more air defense systems. 
"Russia's main goal is to normalize terror, to exploit the lack of sufficient air defense and determination of Ukraine's partners," he said in a social media post. 
"This is a test of humanity and determination for the free world. Either we pass this test together, or the world will plunge into even greater destabilization and chaos," he added. 
In a daily briefing, Russia's Defense Ministry said it had launched a "group strike with long-range... precision weapons against Ukrainian energy facilities that support the work of enterprises of the military-industrial complex." 
It said the strikes were a "response to attempts by the Kyiv regime to damage Russian energy and transport facilities." 
Ukraine has hit several Russian oil depots and refineries in drone strikes over recent months — something Kyiv says is fair retribution for Moscow's aerial attacks. 
Separately on Saturday, Kharkiv Governor Oleh Syniehubov said rescuers pulled two more bodies from the rubble of a major missile strike that hit Kharkiv city in the early hours of Friday, taking the number of those killed to nine. 
A high-ranking official in Russia’s Ural Mountains region of Perm was forced to resign after a video filmed by his son at a resort in Bali sparked public backlash. 
Alexei Dyomkin, the Perm region government's deputy chairman, announced his resignation on Thursday, just days after his son Ilya posted a video in which he boasted about his worry-free life on the tropical Indonesian island. 
Some ask me, ‘Ilya, will you ever come back to Perm?’” Ilya Dyomkin said in the since-deleted Instagram Reel. 
Guys, this is what my Saturday morning looks like. Why the hell would I want to be in Perm?” he added as he switched the camera around to show Bali’s lush green landscapes. 
I admit to being responsible for my son’s statement. That’s why I consider it correct to resign on my own will,” the Kommersant business daily cited Alexei Dyomkin as saying. 
I thank my colleagues from the government for the valuable experience of working together,” the official added. 
Last month, local investigative news outlet Perm 36.6 reported that Ilya Dyomkin was vacationing in Peru, where he posted photos from Machu Picchu. 
Children and close relatives of top Russian officials have frequently been spotted vacationing abroad, including in NATO and EU member states, during Russia’s invasion of Ukraine despite the introduction of targeted Western sanctions. 
Several regional officials and their family members have also found themselves in hot water over sharing snapshots from their trips on public social media pages since the start of the war. 
Ukrainian bombardments killed three people in separate attacks on Russian border regions and in occupied Ukrainian territory, Russian and Moscow-installed officials said Friday. 
Ukrainian forces over recent months have escalated fatal missile and drone attacks on Russian border regions, and also targeted Russian energy infrastructure. 
"The village of Korovyakovka was shelled from the Ukrainian side today," the Russian governor of the Kursk region announced on social media. 
"A local resident was killed," he said. 
Ukraine has been targeting border regions in reprisal for Russian bombings of Ukrainian towns over the past two years. 
A day after another attack on the border region of Bryansk, a woman succumbed to her wounds, Governor Alexander Bogomaz said. 
Moscow-installed authorities in the Luhansk region of Ukraine on Friday said one person was killed and two more were injured by Ukrainian shelling on the village of Novodruzhesk. 
The Luhansk region has been partially controlled by Russian-backed forces since 2014 and the Kremlin claimed to have annexed it in late 2022. 
Russia and North Korea ramped up trade in 2019 despite international sanctions, the South Korean news network Arirang reported, citing data from the Geneva-based International Trade Center. 
Pyongyang has been under UN sanctions since 2006 over its missile and nuclear programs, which the Security Council has unanimously strengthened over the years. 
Despite that, North Korea imported more than $42 million in goods from Russia in January-November 2019, Arirang reported Monday. 
That’s 20% higher than the $32 million in goods North Korea imported from Russia in 2018, it said. 
Pyongyang’s imports consisted mostly of petroleum products from Russia, followed by animal oil, food and medical products, according to South Korea’s Yonhap news agency. 
Russia imported $2.3 million in goods from North Korea from January-November 2019, up from $1.9 million in 2018, Arirang reported. 
Moscow admitted Thursday that it had missed a United Nations deadline to repatriate North Korean workers by Dec. 22 due to what it called objective difficulties.” 
Additionally, Russian Interior Ministry statistics released Wednesday showed that the number of tourist and student visas issued by Russia to North Koreans surged in 2019. 
Experts cited by Reuters suspect that many of those issued tourist visas are working illegally in Russia. 
Moscow and Beijing pushed unsuccessfully in the United Nations in December for a raft of sanctions on North Korea to be lifted. 
Russian law enforcement authorities have launched a criminal investigation into a mass street brawl and shootout in the city of Chelyabinsk over the weekend that reportedly involved Ukraine war veterans. 
In a video of the fight published by local media, a group of men could be seen beating a man lying face down on the ground with a blunt object. Some of the men wore masks and camouflage. 
A few moments later, a separate group of black-clad men arrived in two cars and began opening fire on the first group of men, who then fled the area. 
Law enforcement officials later said all those participating” in what it called a situational conflict” were arrested after the fight broke out on Saturday afternoon. It was not clear how many people were taken into police custody. 
News channels on the Telegram messaging app that are believed to have links to Russian security services claimed only three men, including one minor, had been arrested. 
Russia’s Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes, announced late Sunday that the brawl and shootout was being investigated as a criminal hooliganism” case. 
Those involved in the conflict opened fire with traumatic [non-lethal] weapons at their opponents on the basis of personal hostility,” the law enforcement body said without specifying the cause of the dispute. 
Conflicting reports suggested that the street fight may have erupted due to a relationship triangle between a woman, an army soldier and a Wagner mercenary group veteran. 
However, according to one local media report, the fight broke out after a Wagner fighter and his girlfriend were allegedly attacked by an unknown group of men. 
It was not immediately possible to independently verify the report, which claimed that all those arrested over the weekend were members of Wagner. 
The Wagner mercenary outfit played a key role in Russia’s invasion of Ukraine before its short-lived mutiny and the death of its founder Yevgeny Prigozhin last summer. 
A Russian pop song by singer Katya Lel has gone viral on TikTok this month with videos of women dancing in fur coats and hats with earflaps. 
The viral version is a sped-up remix of the original Moi Marmeladnyi (My Marmalade),” which was released in 2004. 
Its lyrics roughly translate to: Again, it feels like my head is spinning. My marmalade, I'm wrong.” 
The song has reached 3rd place on Spotify’s Viral 50 - Global chart. 
Russian-speaking TikTokers started using the original track in March for videos in which they describe different life situations, saying that they were wrong with the phrase My marmalade, I’m wrong,” the independent news website Holod reported. 
This month, TikTok users from different countries adopted the sped-up version, creating videos where they dance and lip-sync to the song's rhythm. 
Commenting on the trend, Lel said on her Instagram page on Tuesday that life is unpredictable and full of surprises.” 
Footage of apartment buildings in the Gaza Strip crumbling under Israeli airstrikes and suffering Palestinian civilians has filled Russian political talk shows and newscasts for weeks. 
They are razing Gaza to the ground,” state television anchor and propagandist Vladimir Solovyov said during a recent show. We [the Russian army] don’t fight like that, not even close.” 
Only the Americans can stop this bloodbath but they are doing exactly the opposite,” anchor Olga Skabeyeva said during a primetime segment on the Rossia 1 channel. 
Since the outbreak of the Israel-Hamas conflict, Russian state media, Telegram channels and officials have largely blamed Israel for the latest violence and accused Moscow’s foes in the West of double standards in an attempt to justify the invasion of Ukraine. 
Thousands of Ukrainian civilians have been killed and several cities destroyed since Russian forces invaded in February 2022. 
Many analysts agree that the conflict in Gaza plays to the Kremlin's advantage by reinforcing anti-U.S. sentiments in the Global South and diverting attention from Russia's actions in Ukraine. 
The Kremlin has called the conflict a direct consequence of Western policies in the region that have favored Israel while disregarding the interests of the Palestinian people. 
Russia’s interest in this conflict consists of opposing the U.S.,” Marianna Belenkaya, an Arab affairs expert and journalist for the Kommersant business daily, told The Moscow Times. 
Condemning Israel 
Following the start of Israel’s military response to the Hamas militant group’s Oct. 7 surprise attack, Russian state media have expressed solidarity with the Palestinian people, condemning Israeli airstrikes on civilian areas in the heavily blockaded Gaza Strip. 
The one who answers barbarity with barbarity is a barbarian,” RT editor-in-chief Margarita Simonyan wrote on Telegram, commenting on Israel’s ongoing bombing of Gaza. 
RT has given extensive coverage to Israel’s attack on Gaza as well as pro-Palestine protests around the world. 
Some Russian media figures and officials have described Israel’s actions in Gaza as an act of genocide against the Palestinian people. 
In a post on Telegram, Skabeyeva described Israel’s military operation against Hamas as being directed against Muslims.” 
A number of Russian far-right Telegram channels meanwhile have shown openly anti-Semitic views and supported Hamas’ attack on Israel. 
It’s a pity there is no way to participate,” neo-Nazi group Rusich wrote on its Telegram channel on Oct. 7 as Hamas militants stormed through Gaza’s heavily fortified border with Israel. In another post a few days later, the group compared Israel to ISIS. 
Grey Zone, a nationalist channel affiliated with the Wagner mercenary group, defined Hamas’ attack as being aimed at the demilitarization and denazification of Israel” — echoing Russia’s pretext for invading Ukraine — and called for the mass killing of Jews. 
War of fakes 
The unprecedented amount of fake information about the conflict circulating online has created fertile ground for Russian propaganda to discredit Israel and its Western allies. 
In an article published by the Komsomolskaya Pravda tabloid titled The Bucha of Israel,” the author blamed the Israeli and Western press for spreading still-unconfirmed information about beheaded children found at the Kfar Aza kibbutz as a pretext for justifying Israel’s brutal military response in Gaza. 
The article draws parallels with Bucha, Ukraine, where hundreds of civilians were killed during the Russian occupation in March 2022. Russian officials and propaganda labeled the massacre a provocation” staged by Kyiv to gain the support of Western public opinion. 
In comparing the Kfar Aza massacre to Bucha, Russian propagandists insinuate that the Western press is spreading fakes like they supposedly did in Ukraine,” independent journalist Maria Borzunova told The Moscow Times. 
At the start of the latest escalation, Russian propagandists supported unverified claims that Western weapons coming from Ukraine were used by Hamas fighters to attack Israel. 
Weapons given to the neo-Nazi regime in Ukraine are being actively used in Israel,” deputy head of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev wrote in a Telegram post. 
Days later, Putin said he had no doubt” that weapons for Ukraine had ended up in the Middle East through the black market. 
There has been no evidence that Hamas used Western weapons coming from Ukraine in its attack against Israel. 
When an Oct. 17 blast at a hospital in Gaza killed hundreds of civilians, some Russian propagandists were swift to support the Palestinian version of events and blame Israel for the tragedy. 
Several independent investigations later determined that Israel’s responsibility for the attack is far from certain. 
Double standards 
The conflict in Gaza has created an ideal environment for Russian propagandists to blame the West for its perceived hypocrisy over the war in Ukraine. 
While the U.S. and its allies were swift in condemning Russia’s invasion of its neighbor, they have been hesitant to do the same for Israeli strikes on Gaza, which UN experts say amount to war crimes. 
The West condemns and exaggerates Russia’s actions in Ukraine but minimizes Israel’s crimes in Gaza: the double standards are obvious,” Kirill Semenov, an expert with the Kremlin-aligned Russian International Affairs Council, told The Moscow Times. 
By focusing on the brutality of Israel’s bombing of civilian areas in Gaza, pro-Kremlin propagandists have sought to justify the Russian army’s actions in Ukraine, portraying them as comparatively moderate. 
I hope the West will shut up with those statements about the brutality of the Russian army. You want brutality? Look at how the Israeli army is fighting,” Solovyov said in a recent show. 
Now you understand the difference between a war and the special military operation,” Solovyov wrote on Telegram, using the Kremlin’s preferred term for the invasion of Ukraine. 
Despite the Kremlin’s official claims that its army is targeting exclusively military targets in Ukraine, several cases of deadly Russian airstrikes on civilian areas have been reported since the start of the invasion. 
According to Belenkaya, Russia’s propaganda message is directed at both the domestic Russian audience as well as the pro-Palestinian left in the West. 
It’s important for the Russian state to show it is not doing the most terrible things,” Belenkaya said. 
They are saying: Look, there are other countries at war that kill civilians and the West adopts double standards about it.” 
Emergency crews have called off the search and rescue operation at a gold mine in Far East Russia’s Amur region, where 13 miners were trapped by a rockslide two weeks ago, the mine’s operator said Monday. 
It was decided to stop the rescue operation at the Pioneer mine on April 1,” operator Pokrovsky Rudnik said in a statement. 
The lives of the rescuers and mine workers involved in the operation are in danger due to the high probability of a repeated collapse and flooding,” it added. 
Rescuers have been unable to establish contact with the Pioneer miners since a rock collapse on March 18, though officials said they believed the 13 miners may still be alive. 
State media, citing anonymous emergency service sources, reported last week that the miners had likely drowned from flooding. 
Monday’s statement did not explicitly say the miners were presumed dead, but Pioneer’s deputy director Alexei Afanasyev expressed condolences and promised financial support to their friends and relatives. 
Pioneer’s managing director Alexei Biryukov was arrested last Monday on charges of violating safety rules, a crime punishable by up to seven years in prison. 
Pioneer is one of the world’s largest gold mines and one of the most productive in Russia. 
Russians Abroad Take Part in Anti-Putin Election Protest, In Pictures 
Mar 17, 2024 - 08:04 pm 
Yulia Navalnaya, widow of the late Kremlin opposition leader Alexei Navalny, arrives at a rally next to the Russian embassy in Berlin, where voters lined up to cast their ballots in the Russia's presidential election on March 17, 2024. 
Tobias Sсhwarz / AFP 
Moscow authorities threatened criminal charges against those who take part in election-day rallies, pointing to Article 141 of the Criminal Code, the obstruction of elections or citizens' electoral rights, which is punishable by up to five years in prison. Image: Russians in Vilnius wait outside the Russian Embassy to vote. 
Vasily Maximov 
The Kremlin is seeking to use the presidential election to demonstrate that all Russians support Putin and the war in Ukraine. Image: Outside the Russian Embassy in Vilnius. 
Vasily Maximov 
Putin, who has led Russia for 24 years, is expected to win his fifth term when the polls close on Sunday evening, making him the longest-ruling Russian leader since Catherine the Great. Image: A sign reading Putin killed Navalny” outside the Russian Embassy in Vilnius. 
Vasily Maximov 
Demonstrators hold placards as they gather outside the Russian embassy, in London, on March 17, 2024 to protest against Russia's presidential election. 
Benjamin Cremel / AFP 
Running against Putin are Vladislav Davankov of the New People party, Leonid Slutsky of the Liberal Democratic Party (LDPR), and Nikolai Kharitonov of the Communist Party. Despite their differences, all these candidates are widely perceived as backed by the Kremlin. Image: Russians in Tallinn enter the Russian Embassy to vote. 
МТ 
Voting in the 2024 election took place over three days, with early voting taking place for two weeks in remote regions of Russia and occupied Ukraine. Image: Voters waiting outside the Russian Embassy in Tallinn. 
МТ 
Experts have warned that this extended period of voting makes it easier for fraud to take place, as it makes it harder for independent observers to spot irregularities. Image: Voters gathering outside the Russian Embassy in Tel Aviv. 
A memorial to Alexei Navalny in Brussels. 
MT 
Russians waiting to vote in Brussels. 
Experts suggest that a significant voter turnout and a large percentage of votes in favor of Putin would be seen as endorsing the war and showcasing national unity in a country where most opposition figures have been either exiled or imprisoned. Image: A queue of voters in Belgrade. 
Amelia Rucker 
Two anti-war presidential hopefuls, Boris Nadezhdin and Yekaterina Duntsova, were banned from running — and there is minimal independent oversight of the voting process. To protest, some Russians intentionally spoiled their ballots or voted against any candidate other than Putin. Image: Russians waiting to vote in Belgrade. 
Amelia Rucker 
Moscow authorities threatened criminal charges against those who take part in election-day rallies, pointing to Article 141 of the Criminal Code, the obstruction of elections or citizens' electoral rights, which is punishable by up to five years in prison. Image: People queue outside the Russian embassy in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan. 
Vladislav Nogai / TASS 
Image: A sign reading enough of Putin’s lies, war, repression” in Tbilisi, Georgia 
Rain, Paper Kartuli / t.me/tvrain 
Protesters hold signs outside the Russian Embassy in Tbilisi. 
Rain, Paper Kartuli / t.me/tvrain 
Voters waiting outside the Russian Embassy in Yerevan. 
t.me/tvrain 
Voters in The Hague, Netherlands, wave the blue-and-white flat which has become a symbol of the Russian opposition. 
Anna, a 67-year-old woman from the southern city of Rostov-on-Don, remembers being woken up by the sounds of military equipment early in the morning of June 24. 
From her window, she could see a tank, armored vehicles and machine gunners of the Wagner private military company sitting opposite her house, surrounding one of the Russian military’s main command centers for its war in Ukraine. 
I started reading the news and realized that while I was sleeping, the center of the city was captured by Wagner’s mercenaries. It wasn’t crowded on the street yet, although some people came up and looked at them curiously,” Anna told The Moscow Times, requesting anonymity out of safety concerns. 
After a few hours, I decided that my family and I needed to leave immediately,” she added. 
The Wagner Group’s mutiny against Russia’s military leadership saw its forces occupy the center of Rostov-on-Don, a city of 1 million, for 24 hours with barely any resistance. 
Many observers took this — and scenes of residents cheering for Wagner fighters as they ended their mutiny — as a sign that Wagner leader Yevgeny Prigozhin could pose a credible threat to President Vladimir Putin’s hold on power. 
Local residents and analysts who spoke to The Moscow Times told a different story — one in which much of the support for Wagner and Prigozhin in Rostov-on-Don was passive rather than active. 
After Prigozhin announced his march of justice” to Moscow, many Rostov-on-Don residents panicked and tried to flee the city, and supermarket shelves with essential goods quickly started to empty. 
However, despite the authorities’ requests for residents not to leave their homes, many citizens’ anxiety turned into curiosity by midday. 
Locals flocked to the city center to see what was happening, a journalist from a local Rostov-based media outlet who was at the scene of the events told The Moscow Times. She also requested anonymity. Сitizens took pictures with the mercenaries and treated them to food from nearby cafes, while some girls even tried to meet them for a date, she said. 
A number of Rostov residents who spoke to The Moscow Times said they knew people who expressed sympathy for Prigozhin, believing that he was not afraid to tell the truth, while the Defense Ministry suppressed news of defeats on the frontline and problems in the army. 
My friends reacted positively to what was happening, hoping for changes in the country. They liked that there was finally a person who was not afraid to go against Putin,” said Anastasia, 25, who works at a construction company. 
Although Prigozhin did not call on the military to switch sides, had his mutiny been successful, some military personnel would have supported Wagner, an officer from Rostov-on-Don told The Moscow Times on condition of anonymity. 
The military has an ambivalent attitude toward Prigozhin. There are those who idolize him for telling the truth about the problems in the army, while others treat him as a charlatan running a gang of criminals,” the officer said, referring to Wagner’s recruitment of convicts from Russian prisons. 
Several of my fellow officers who were in the city center on the day of the mutiny spoke positively about the behavior of guys from Wagner. Mercenaries waved to them, greeted them, expressed respect, and they were quite friendly,” the officer added. 
The Rostov-based journalist told The Moscow Times that for many locals, the presence of mercenaries in the city was a kind of spectacle. 
I talked to a lot of people on the street. They were sure that this rebellion was just a farce, and that Putin would soon resolve everything,” she said. 
On the evening of June 24, the Rostov-based media 161.ru published a video in which citizens of Rostov applaud a mercenary, chanting: Wagner!” Some of them shook hands with Prigozhin through the window of the SUV in which he was leaving the city. 
The governor of the Rostov region, Vasily Golubev, claimed that the public displays of support for Wagner were staged by mercenaries disguised in civilian clothes. 
Nevertheless, residents' reactions should not be viewed as genuine support for Prigozhin’s rebellion, said Denis Volkov, head of the independent Levada Center polling agency. 
Prigozhin was perceived as a defender of the common people, criticizing self-satisfied officials. But the mutiny changed everything. Paying tribute to the successes of his fighters at the front, a significant part of Russians did not support the attempted military coup, perceiving it as a betrayal and a threat to stability,” Volkov told The Moscow Times. 
A Levada Center study published on June 29 showed that after the capture of eastern Ukraine’s Bakhmut by Wagner mercenaries, Prigozhin entered the top 10 political figures most trusted by Russians. 
Prior to the mutiny, Prigozhin’s approval rating among Levada respondents had been 59%. However, it started to fall rapidly after June 24, dropping to 29% in less than a week. At the same time, among those who disapproved of his activities, 34% blamed the mutiny. 
It is difficult to say exactly how many people were ready to join the rebellion. The attitude towards Prigozhin was rather a passive approval — the position of observers,” Volkov said. However, it works the same way with regard to Putin. No one took to the streets in support of the authorities.” 
I think people applauded Wagner and Prigozhin not because they supported the rebellion, but because for them, they are ‘our soldiers.’ Many consider them heroes. People were glad that everything ended peacefully and no one was hurt,” said Anna, the 67-year-old Rostov-on-Don resident. 
As interest in Prigozhin continues to fall, so will his ratings, Volkov said. 
His media outlets have stopped working, and state media, primarily television, will first try to discredit him as much as possible, and then they will stop talking about him altogether. It will be oblivion — you drop out of the agenda and they forget about you.” 
While much of the world is celebrating Valentine’s Day with cards, chocolates and flowers, some in Russia have seized on current geopolitical tensions to undermine the romantic holiday and paint it as an example of Western excess.” 
Soon after being disqualified from the presidential election, Communists of Russia party chairman Sergei Malinkovich urged lawmakers to launch a legislative attack on the excessive and dubious holiday,” according to the RTVI broadcaster. 
Like officials before him, Malinkovich claimed that Valentine’s Day was imposed by Western media” while Russian businesses impose their tasteless products on citizens.” 
We can’t allow traders to sell hearts on every corner, a human heart is not a commodity,” he was quoted as saying in a letter to the lower-house State Duma. 
The state-run TASS news agency quoted several religious leaders as saying that the holiday is alien to Russia.” 
Feb. 14 according to the Western European calendar is the moment when spring arrives,” said Hieromonk Macarius from the Russian Orthodox Church. 
That’s why the date was associated with family and marriage. Then they forgot about marriage and it all became associated with extramarital relations,” he added. 
But the day of love was not lost on the republic of Tatarstan, where car enthusiasts organized a mini rally in honor of President Vladimir Putin. 
Three white BMWs were filmed crossing the frozen Volga River with the phrase We Heart Putin” spelled out in letters taped to their roofs. 
Meanwhile, the regional branch of the far-right Liberal Democratic Party (LDPR) invited the public to speed-date its younger members in a week-long marathon that wraps up on Valentine’s Day. 
The speed-dating event poster bore the image of LDPR leader Leonid Slutsky, who was famously accused of sexual harassment in 2018. 
Speed dating was also initially planned at a popular public space in the neighboring republic of Bashkortostan’s capital Ufa. 
But organizers scrapped it at the last minute in favor of a dance party, prompting local media to question whether critics of Valentine’s Day had a hand in the change of plans. 
The Siberian city of Tyumen replaced St. Valentine’s Day with St. Tryphon Day, honoring the patron saint of gardeners and winegrowers. 
On Feb. 17, Tyumen’s Peasant Life History Museum plans to organize folk games, dances and sledding to replicate Lover’s Day” celebrated in medieval Russia under the Kyivan Rus’. 
Public polling indicates that less than 40% of Russians planned to celebrate Valentine’s Day. 
Updated with confirmation by the Ukrainian military. 
A Ukrainian cruise missile and seaborne drone attack on a shipyard in annexed Crimea damaged two Russian warships that had been undergoing repairs, Russian and Ukrainian military officials said Wednesday. 
The overnight attack targeted a shipyard in the port city of Sevastopol, home to Russia's Black Sea fleet, causing a blaze that injured at least 24 people, according to Kremlin-backed officials in Crimea. 
Russia’s Defense Ministry confirmed the missile strike and seaborne drone attack, saying two Russian Black Sea Fleet ships were damaged. 
"The Ukrainian armed forces launched a strike with 10 cruise missiles at the S. Ordzhonikidze ship repair yard," the Defense Ministry said on the messaging app Telegram. 
Ukraine also "attempted an attack with three unmanned boats against a detachment of Black Sea fleet ships" during a sea crossing, it added. 
Russia's Defense Ministry said air defense systems managed to shoot down seven of the cruise missiles, while a patrol ship destroyed all three seaborne drones used in the attack. 
So, too, did military officials in Kyiv confirm the attack, saying that "significant damage to equipment and facilities" had been caused at the shipyard. 
Open-source intelligence analysts have suggested that a military landing craft and submarine were among the vessels damaged, though this information could not be immediately verified. 
Mikhail Razvozhayev, the Kremlin-installed governor of Sevastopol, said on the messaging app Telegram that he was at the scene of the fire at the shipyard early Wednesday. 
"As a result of the attack, according to preliminary information, a total of 24 people were injured, four of them in moderate condition," he said. 
Kyiv has targeted Crimea throughout the war in Ukraine, but the annexed peninsula has recently come under more intense, increased attacks. 
A new song by Russian pop star Monetochka is inspiring Russians to share videos on social media that show what life was like before the Kremlin’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
Hundreds of thousands of Russians, including politicians, activists, journalists and artists, have moved abroad since the February 2022 invasion of Ukraine, which has killed thousands of Ukrainians and Russians, sparked a sweeping crackdown on dissent and isolated Russia from the West. 
It Happened in Russia,” the first song on Monetochka’s new album Prayers. Anecdotes. Toasts,” has gone viral among anti-war emigres since its release last week. 
The song’s chorus says: It happened in Russia, which means it was a long time ago.” 
It happened in Russia, which means it was only a dream. A dream cannot be stolen, it will stay with me,” the lyrics continue. 
Hundreds of videos posted to social media include everything from clips of foreigners partying in Moscow during the 2018 FIFA World Cup and late opposition figures Alexei Navalny and Boris Nemtsov to scenes of everyday life. 
One video posted on TikTok says Do you remember the times when famous performers from all over the world came to Russia?” with clips from popular Western bands’ concerts in Russia including Muse, Maroon 5, Imagine Dragons and Fall Out Boy — all of whom no longer perform in Russia. 
In another video, a young man leafs through a book that has blocks of text blacked out, a reflection on Russia’s intensified literary censorship during the war. 
I remember the times when we thought it was impossible to paint over pieces of text and sell a book that way,” the video’s caption reads. 
Some people — including both Russian emigres and people who stayed in the country — have posted footage of their daily lives and time with their friends and families before the war. 
Russia has stolen from us,” said one comment under an Instagram Reel featuring the song. 
Monetochka, who also fled Russia because of her opposition to the war, was designated by Russian authorities as a foreign agent” in 2023. 
A group of Russians has bid farewell to dating app Tinder on Friday with a beachfront funeral in the resort city of Sochi. 
Tinder owner Match Group last month announced it will leave Russia on June 30, citing its commitment "to protecting human rights.” 
Mourners clad in black shared stories of how Tinder helped them find love — or introduced them to "a large number of women" — and laid red carnations at a mock tombstone shaped like a smartphone. 
Attendees also performed a "farewell swipe," a gesture used by Tinder users to indicate their interest in another user. 
The event organizers encouraged those in attendance to start dating in real life. 
When we saw that Tinder was leaving Russia on June 30, we decided without hesitation to hold a party,” the event’s organizer Shura Shirmagina-Silkina told the Podyom news outlet. We decided to say goodbye like this: read some eulogies to [the app] about how dear it is to us.” 
Tinder's competitors such as Bumble and Badoo have already exited Russia following the February 2022 invasion of Ukraine. The apps are no longer available for download from the App Store and Google Play in Russia and Belarus. 
According to the Vedomosti business daily, Russian social media site VKontakte is developing an analog dating application. 
The Crimea bridge suffered its second deadly attack since Russia's invasion of Ukraine, which has hurt the annexed peninsula's critical tourism industry. Anxiety over the ongoing war and Kyiv's counteroffensive has left many Russians hesitant to visit the region. 
We asked people on the streets of Moscow if they had plans to visit Crimea despite the risk of future attacks. 
The United States last week approved billions of dollars of crucial military aid to Ukraine following months of wrangling with Republicans in Congress. 
While Kyiv welcomed the news, the long delay of some $61 billion worth of weapons and supplies has raised concerns about the impact the aid will have on Ukrainian forces' ability to push back invading Russian troops in the weeks and months ahead. 
We asked people on the streets of Moscow whether they think the latest aid package will help Ukraine regain momentum on the battlefield, as well as whether it could prompt the Russian authorities to announce a new mobilization drive in response. 
Yevgeny Prigozhin, the leader of Russia's Wagner mercenary group, launched a surprising attempt to stage a military rebellion on Friday evening. Prigozhin declared his armed campaign, which he dubbed a "march of justice," with the goal of holding the country's military leadership accountable. 
In a fast-moving series of events, Wagner's forces advanced toward Moscow the following day after seizing control of the southern city of Rostov-on-Don, a major center of command for the war in Ukraine. 
In times like these, sometimes all you can do is make some memes. 
Here’s a look at some of our favorite memes from Prigozhin's aborted mutiny: 
Prior to founding the Wagner Group, Prigozhin had a background in the catering business. He earned the moniker "Putin's Chef" for his involvement in supplying food to the Kremlin and various Russian elites. 
Another meme referencing Prigozhin's culinary past. 
Iosif Prigozhin, a well-known music producer who shares the same last name as Yevgeny Prigozhin but has no family relation to him, featured prominently in many memes from this weekend. 
These memes playfully swapped their roles, using images of Iosif Prigozhin to humorously depict him taking control of Dubai, alluding to a hypothetical military coup scenario. 
The photo shows Iosif Prigozhin with his wife, the singer Valeriya. 
Iosif Prigozhin shared his thoughts on the memes that confused him with the head of Wagner: 
"It's not even laughter through tears. It was a great concern. And the fact that I was somehow trapped in this situation — I don't even know how to react. It's like a new role for me, reminiscent of some kind of fictional movie. It's a strange fusion in which I've been existing lately," Iosif Prigozhin said. 
Following the arrival of the Wagner Group in Rostov-on-Don, some residents shared photos of the fighters, jokingly expressing their interest in finding potential romantic partners among them. 
"Please find me, we were on Budennovsky [Prospekt]/Pushkinskaya [Ulitsa] at 4:43!! You guys are cute." 
Following the negotiations between Prigozhin and Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko that led to the end of the rebellion, one meme depicted Lukashenko as Michael Jackson "lowering" a gun aimed at himself. 
Meme-makers also showed Lukashenko saving the ill-fated Titan submersible. 
- After 6 days, the passengers of the Titan submarine were rescued! 
- But how?!?! 
- ... 
Some poked fun at the Moscow mayor's tendency to declare a citywide day off anytime anything goes wrong. 
Russians who initially fled the country but are now returning from abroad have helped boost Russia’s economic growth in the face of unprecedented Western sanctions, Bloomberg reported Thursday. 
An estimated 1.1 million people left Russia in 2022 after Moscow launched the full-scale invasion of Ukraine. Between 40% and 45% have since returned, according to client data from the Moscow-based relocation firm Finion cited by Bloomberg. 
The returnees contributed between one-fifth and one-third of Russia’s 3.6% GDP growth in 2023, according to Bloomberg Economics estimates. 
These Russians reportedly chose to return home after facing difficulties with renewing residence permits abroad and encountering personal and institutional discrimination, even in countries that are considered to be Russia-friendly and have not imposed sanctions on Moscow. 
They came back with a feeling of resentment and the feeling that ‘Putin was not so wrong after all. They really hate us’,” Anna Kuleshova, a sociologist at the Social Foresight Group, which interviews Russian emigres, was quoted as saying by Bloomberg. 
Political analyst Tatiana Stanovaya said Russian propaganda uses the comeback stories as proof of widespread Russophobia” in the West. For Putin, who has lauded the return of Russian entrepreneurs and highly qualified workers as a good trend,” Stanovaya said the process fuels him, gives him additional evidence that he was right.” 
The sense of insecurity felt by Russians living abroad suggests the repatriation process will likely continue as the war drags on, Bloomberg said, citing a European University Institute in Florence study of Russian migrants. 
Russia saw two waves of outward migration in 2022 — one initially after the start of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine and the second in the fall when the Kremlin announced a partial” mobilization. Many fled out of opposition to the war, fears of economic collapse, or a refusal to be sent to the battlefield. 
Putin initially described this outflow as a natural and necessary cleansing of society” of scum and traitors.” But by the summer of last year, the Russian leader shifted his tone, describing those who remain abroad as an additional element connecting Russia” with its foreign partners. 
Journalists covering the UN General Assembly mocked President Donald Trump during his speech on Tuesday, Russian state television said. 
Rossia-1’s news program 60 Minut” opened its Tuesday evening broadcast with a question for its reporter in New York whether rumors that Trump’s speech was mocked were exaggerated. 
No, nothing was exaggerated,” co-host Evgeny Popov said via video conference from New York. I didn’t see anyone clutching at their sides, but they did laugh inside the press center and twisted fingers at their temple.” 
Popov said that the ridicule in the press center peaked when Trump threatened to totally destroy” North Korea if it endangered the U.S. or its allies. 
Konstantin Kosachev, the head of the International Affairs Committee in Federation Council, attended Trump’s speech and said the world leaders and diplomats among the audience were more reserved. Trump’s speech, he said, met with tepid applause” and astonished looks.” 
Communist leader Gennady Zyuganov called Trump’s speech dreadful” but highlighted the fact that Trump did not list Russia among a small group of rogue regimes.” 
Another analyst featured on the show said it was the least anti-Russian speech made by a U.S. president in recent years. In his speech, Trump thanked Russia and China for joining the U.S. in imposing new sanctions against North Korea last week. 
A leading Russian state television anchor has praised the victory of Dutch far-right leader Geert Wilders in The Netherlands’ elections, saying his win plays to Russia’s advantage in its war on Ukraine. 
Wilders — who ran on an anti-Islam, anti-immigration and anti-European Union platform — has praised Russian President Vladimir Putin in the past and supports ending Dutch military aid to Ukraine. 
Just to understand why this is important to Russia, for example, yesterday, during the 17th Ramstein-format meeting, the current prime minister of The Netherlands [Mark] Rutte promised fighter jets to [Ukrainian President Volodymyr] Zelensky,” Russian state television presenter Olga Skabeyeva said Thursday. 
But Wilders, who in his pre-election program said that he would stop helping Ukraine in the war, is coming to power. Wilders has also already said that he’s in favor of immediate negotiations and all Ukrainian refugees leaving Holland,” she continued. 
The Netherlands has been a staunch ally of Ukraine since Moscow’s February 2022 invasion, and alongside Denmark led efforts to supply Kyiv with F-16 fighter jets. 
Skabeyava went on to say that the most level-headed thinking and sanity” is coming from the European far-right — politicians who, she said, it was customary to call fascists until recently.” 
Yesterday [Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor] Orban said that European bureaucracy is leading the European Union into chaos,” she said. He meant European and Brussels democracy. By the way, Orban was the first to congratulate Wilders on his new position.” 
Indeed, he still has to create a coalition, but he’s already stated that he won’t enter a deal with the left. The likely next prime minister of the Netherlands himself is being called the worst thing that could happen to Europe.” 
On Russian state TV they're predictably delighted with the Dutch election result pic.twitter.com/8HJTvS0EoE 
The Kremlin-backed media outlet Sputnik blamed sanctions on Russia and an influx of Ukrainian refugees for Europe’s rightward political shift. 
Preliminary results show Wilders’ Freedom Party (PVV) winning 37 of 150 seats in the lower house of the Dutch Parliament, significantly more than any other party, leaving it responsible for forming a coalition government. 
An October investigation by Dutch outlet Follow the Money said that PVV members had participated in propaganda events and visits to Russia paid for and organized by ultranationalist State Duma lawmaker Leonid Slutsky. 
Wilders himself traveled to Moscow in 2018 on a controversial working visit. In an interview with the Kremlin-backed RT network, he called Putin a leader, whatever you think of him,” saying he applauds” him for standing for the Russian people. 
Dutch-Russian relations have been strained since Russian-backed separatists in eastern Ukraine shot down Malaysian Airlines flight MH17 in July 2014, killing 198 Dutch civilians on board and 298 people in total. 
FTM reported that Wilders tried to hide his Russian connections and did not publicly comment on his Moscow trip, though he did post photographs on Twitter. 
The official PVV party platform does not mention Russia beyond saying that the Netherlands should prepare for a tsunami of fortune seekers” in Europe, in part because the Russian aggressor unlawfully invaded Ukraine.” However, it also says the PVV will not send money or promised F16 fighter jets to Ukraine. 
Russian strikes on the northeastern Ukrainian city of Kharkiv have killed at least one person and wounded nine others, regional authorities said Tuesday. 
"Nine people were wounded and one person was killed as a result of enemy bombardment of Kharkiv," regional governor Oleh Syniehubov said. Earlier on Tuesday, he said Russian forces "attacked Kharkiv with guided aerial bombs." 
Ukraine Railways said the 24-year-old man killed in the strikes was one of its employees. 
"This is another targeted attack on civilian railway infrastructure by the enemy," the state-owned company said in a statement. 
Kharkiv, which almost fell to Russian forces at the start of Moscow's full-scale invasion in 2022, had a pre-war population of 1.4 million people. 
The International Rescue Committee (IRC), a U.S.-based humanitarian aid organization, issued a statement on Tuesday describing the worsening situation in the city. 
It said recent attacks have caused "extensive damage to civilian infrastructure and led to a sharp increase in casualties among the local population." 
Kharkiv now regularly faces "severe power outages, interruptions in water and heating supply, and a complete halt of trams for public transportation," according to the IRC. 
A recent survey by the aid organization found that 54% of Kharkiv residents are unable to get prescription drugs due to a lack of money, as well as medicine shortages. 
Russian strikes on Ukraine on Tuesday killed 18 people and wounded 130, President Volodymyr Zelensky said, warning that the death toll could increase as rescue efforts were ongoing. 
The strikes hit the capital Kyiv and the northeastern city of Kharkiv in a deadly day for Ukraine as Russia's invasion drags on for almost two years. 
"Unfortunately, 18 people died," Zelensky said in his evening address, adding that another 130 people were wounded. 
He said Kharkiv was particularly badly hit and warned "the number of dead may increase." 
A video from Kharkiv. A couple looks at their home, destroyed by Russia on 23.01.2024. 
Another Russian attack against civilians for no reason. They just want to kill us all. 
Zelensky said rubble from an "ordinary high-rise building" in Kharkiv was still being dismantled and search efforts were ongoing. 
"Ordinary people lived here," he said. 
He said around 139 "ordinary houses" were damaged in the attack and that Russia had fired "more than 40 missiles" onto Ukraine. 
He also warned of retaliation, saying: "Let them know over there, in Russia, that the Ukrainian character knows how to be sufficiently far-reaching in response." 
"The Russian war will surely return home, to where this evil came from... Right there, in Russia," he added. 
Russia has selected Manizha to represent it in this year’s Eurovision song contest with her song Russian Woman.” 
The Tajikistan-born singer-songwriter will replace punk-rave group Little Big, who were chosen to represent Russia in the 2020 sing-off which was ultimately canceled due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
Manizha said her song, written a year ago on International Women’s Day, is "about the transformation of a woman's self-awareness over the past few centuries in Russia." 
"The Russian woman has gone an amazing way from the peasant hut to the right to elect and be elected… She was never afraid to resist stereotypes and take responsibility," Manizha said in an interview after state television’s Channel One announced her as Russia’s representative. 
She said she hoped the song will reflect the generosity and openness that she has seen while living in Russia. 
I would like the world to see our country as I know it: generous, open, bright, unlike anything else,” she told TASS. 
Russian Woman” mixes folk-infused sounds and contemporary rap, with an English verse that says Every Russian woman needs to know / You're strong enough, you're gonna break the wall.” 
Manizha, born Manizha Sangin, is best-known for her innovative and eclectic music. She is also an outspoken advocate for women, domestic violence victims, refugees and the LGBT community. 
Many Russians were upset that 2020’s contestants Little Big never got to represent Russia with their song Uno,” which has become the most popular video in Eurovision’s history with over 189 million views on YouTube. 
The 2021 Eurovision contest will be held in Rotterdam, The Netherlands, from May 18-22 without a live audience to prevent the spread of coronavirus. The song contest has been held annually since 1956 and remains one of the most-watched non-athletic competitions among the 41 countries of the European Broadcasting Union. 
Russian villagers in the country’s Far East region of Magadan have come to the rescue of two beluga whales that were stranded on shore, local media reported Tuesday. 
The two whales had been hunting herring, their usual prey, in Gizhigin Bay when the tide receded, trapping them in shallow waters and eventually leaving them on a dry beach where they caught locals’ attention, MagadanMedia reported. 
A group of 17 adults and children from the village of Topolovka covered the stranded cetaceans in wet cloths and poured water on them to help them stay alive. 
Once the tide finally returned eight hours later at about 10 p.m., the belugas were able to swim back into the Sea of Okhotsk. Locals told MagadanMedia that other belugas had been waiting in nearby waters for their stranded comrades. 
Local officials told MagadanMedia that the rescue took place about two weeks ago and that the villagers rally to help stranded whales almost every June, when herring swim to Gizhiginskaya Bay for their spawning period. 
Conservation experts are closely monitoring another group of stranded belugas near the Chukotka peninsula north of the Sea of Okhotsk. Since January the whales have been trapped in a small clearing surrounded by kilometers of ice in the Penkigngey Bay. 
Such things are quite common in the area, for belugas sometimes go hunting into long bays before the ice sets, experts told the state-run TASS news agency. After winter ice covers the sea, they have to wait until summer before they can escape. 
The World Wildlife Fund says belugas play a critical role in Arctic ecosystems and are vulnerable to climate change due to their dependence on sea ice. In Russia, belugas and other whales also risk capture to be sold to oceanariums or kept in so-called whale prisons.” 
After images from a Russian whale prison” near the Sea of Japan port of Nakhodka sparked international and domestic outrage, the State Duma temporarily banned the capture of orcas and belugas until conditions in oceanariums were drastically reformed. 
Although more than 100,00 Russians in 2019 signed a petition calling for a permanent ban on whale capture, the government deemed this unnecessary” and opted for a temporary ban instead. 
Military authorities in Moscow-annexed Crimea have opened a monument to Russian sailors who perished in a boat attack in Ukrainian waters, but whose deaths were never officially acknowledged, according to crew members and family who spoke to investigative news outlet Agentstvo. 
Ukrainian forces claimed to have sunk the Russian tugboat Vasily Bekh in June 2022 as it transported supplies to Snake Island, a remote but strategic island off the coast of Ukraine. 
The Russian Defense Ministry has never commented on the ship’s alleged sinking or the loss of its crew. A Russian court in April however launched a criminal case against Ukrainian navy admiral Oleksiy Neizhpapa on charges of attacking three Russian vessels, including the Vasily Bekh. 
Dmitry Shkrebets, the father of a 20-year-old conscript killed in the sinking of the Moskva battleship, told Agentstvo that a monument dedicated to those who lost their lives in the Vasily Bekh attack was recently unveiled at a naval facility in Sevastopol. 
Shkrebets said that family members had their phones confiscated at the monument's opening ceremony and they were not allowed to take photos. 
Nonetheless, Shkrebets obtained a photo of the monument prior to its unveiling. 
He told Agentstvo that a total of 19 civilians and 14 military crew members were onboard the Vasily Bekh at the time of the attack, resulting in the deaths of seven civilians and four sailors. 
The surviving crew members and their families said they had been pressing Russian authorities to acknowledge that the Vasily Bekh had been sent into the zone of what the Kremlin calls its special military operation.” 
Russian naval officials say the tugboat had not been under its command when it entered the war zone, Agentsvo reported. 
According to one of the surviving crew members, the victims' families continue to face difficulties in receiving state compensation for their lost loved ones, as a presidential decree on social guarantees for civilian personnel of the Russian Defense Ministry has not been issued. 
Russia plans to scale up industrial drone production following China’s exit from the commercial market and increasing demand from the Russian military in Ukraine, the Kommersant business daily reported Friday. 
The open-source drone manufacturer Copter Express (COEX) sold its industrial division to the drone nest maker Hive for an undisclosed sum, the publication reported. 
Industrial drones are designed to monitor the environment inside and outside manufacturing plants. 
Their prices are up to three times higher than their commercial counterparts which, according to Kommersant, make them less likely to appear on the battlefield in Ukraine. 
Hive said it plans to invest more than 100 million rubles ($1.8 million) and make 100 drones each month by year-end. 
Our task is to transform production from a small scale to mass production,” Hive CEO Nikolai Ryashin told Kommersant. 
COEX CEO Oleg Ponfilenok said industrial drones made up 15% of the company’s profits. 
Kommersant reported last week that the drone shortage fueled by the war and the withdrawal of China’s DJI drone maker has triggered a 30% price increase in Russia. 
IT experts told the outlet that Russia currently lacks truly large-scale drone production projects. They added that the sector faces regulatory stumbling blocks that make the industrial use of drones illegal with the exception of indoor solutions. 
The latest such roadblock appeared in March, when Russian aviation authorities required drone operators to be certified as aircraft pilots. 
It’s impossible to do this in Russia right now, there’s no legal basis,” said Andrei Patrakov, CEO of the drone licensing service RunAvia. 
This week on the program we look at how Russia is dealing with the coronavirus, with experts on the line to take us through the latest developments and assess how Russia’s health system and economy will cope with the pandemic. 
— Moscow Times reporter Evan Gershkovich joins us to go over the steps Russia has taken in recent days. 
— We discuss concerns over the capacity and quality of Russia’s hospitals and medical facilities to deal with the coronavirus with Judy Twigg, a professor at Virginia Commonwealth University and Senior Associate and Center for Strategic and International Studies. 
— And finally, ING’s Chief Russia Economist Dmitry Dolgin explains how the massive global economic disruption caused by the coronavirus will affect Russia. 
Once signed by Russian President Vladimir Putin, the new measures will also stop the import of North Korean copper, nickel, silver and zinc. 
The sanctions will end many of the existing scientific exchange programs between Moscow and Pyongyang, forcing Russian officials to notify the UN Security Council before joint-projects take place. 
While the Security Council will theoretically be able to veto new engineering and nuclear science exchange programs, the ultimate decision on whether projects will go ahead lies with the Kremlin. Medical exchange programs will also be allowed to continue. 
The UN Security Council passed a resolution placing new sanctions on North Korea after Pyongyang launched a medium-range missile on Feb. 12. The missile fell into the Sea of Japan. 
The Russian government collected an extra 83 billion rubles ($1.1 billion) in the first year of a new tax on the country’s top earners, Russia’s RBC business site reported Thursday, citing data from the country’s federal tax service. 
Russia introduced a new income tax levy on Russians’ earning more than 5 million rubles ($67,000) a year at the start of 2021 in a dramatic overhaul to its old so-called flat tax” system. Under the new approach, all earnings over the threshold are taxed at a 15% rate, instead of the standard 13%. 
The new system was controversial as Russia’s simple flat tax system — one of President Vladimir Putin’s first economic reforms introduced in 2001 — was seen as a crucial part of boosting tax revenues and discouraging Russians from hiding their incomes. However, Russia had become an outlier among major economies, most of which use a progressive tax scale with higher levies for higher earners, and rising inequality across the country made the move politically popular. 
The tax take from the extra rate was 38% higher than the 60 billion rubles Russia’s Finance Ministry expected to collect — allaying concerns that the additional levy could push people to restructure or hide their earnings. When the new tax was introduced, Putin said extra incomes would be ring-fenced to provide social payments and programs for vulnerable groups and sick children. 
Even with the new structure, Russia has one of the world’s lowest income tax rates. The Russian government is also not in need of extra revenues, with the government’s annual budget in surplus, and the Central Bank sitting on more than $600 billion in foreign currency reserves. 
More than half the additional income was paid from earners based in Moscow, RBC reported. But some of the country’s poorest regions, such as Dagestan in the North Caucasus, were also among the areas that reported the highest extra tax revenues from the new levy. 
Russia’s largest companies have killed off plans to introduce individual emissions quotas and a carbon trading system. 
Oct. 17, 2019 
The Russian government has drastically watered-down its new package of climate change legislation after push-back from the country’s leading businesses, the Kommersant business daily reported. 
Plans for quotas on carbon emissions at Russia’s largest companies, a new national carbon trading system and penalties for the biggest polluters have now been scrapped. Instead, Russia will only go ahead with proposals to measure and collect data on emissions as part of a five-year green audit. 
The campaign against a stricter package of measures was led by the influential Russian Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) — one of the main lobbying groups for Russia’s largest businesses. The new laws were set to be introduced as part of Russia’s ratification of the Paris Climate Agreement. 
Originally, the Russian government proposed introducing new climate legislation in two phases. The first would be a five-year stock-taking exercise to measure company-level emissions and set appropriate quotas for reducing emissions. After that, Russia would then introduce a carbon cap on the country’s biggest polluters and penalties for those that exceed their quotas. Earlier plans also envisaged the creation of a national fund to support emissions reduction and a system of nationwide carbon trading. 
However, the RSPP has successfully killed-off the entire second phase, including plans to set individual company quotas or targets, arguing that the government should await the results of the climate audit before introducing new laws and regulations to hold firms accountable for their emissions. 
The idea of putting a price on carbon dioxide in Russia has fallen victim to the industrial lobby,” analysts at VTB Capital said in a research note today. This is despite the fact that the Paris Climate Agreement envisages a greenhouse gas emission target which is higher than Russia’s current emissions. So introducing the quota system is unlikely to be punitive for businesses.” 
The watered-down legislation would essentially put any actively managed efforts by the government to reduce emissions on ice,” they added. 
Mikhail Yulkin, Director of the Center for Environmental Investment told Kommersant: It is obvious that Russia needed to join the Paris climate agreement only to create a better image and divert attention away from the domestic political events inside Russia over the summer.” 
But the model on which the Russian economy has been based for the past 20 years is dying. Everybody needs to find a way to move money into low-carbon areas of the economy. Under the leadership of Rosneft and Gazprom, this cannot be done.” 
Russia on Thursday raised the alarm over "acts of terrorism" in Moldova's Moscow-backed breakaway region of Transnistria after separatist authorities reported several attacks there this week. 
"We are alarmed by the escalation of tensions in Transnistria," Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said during her weekly briefing, pointing to reports of shootings and explosions. 
"We regard these actions as acts of terrorism aimed at destabilizing the situation in the region and expect a thorough and objective investigation," Zakharova added. 
She said Russia "strongly condemns" attempts to involve Transnistria in the conflict in neighboring Ukraine, where Moscow has been conducting a military operation for more than two months. 
Zakharova also dismissed a "sensational statement" from Ukraine about Russian peacekeepers and Transnistrian conscripts preparing "for some offensive actions." 
The separatist region bordering Ukraine has reported explosions hitting the security ministry, a military unit and a Russian-owned radio tower as well as shots fired at a village housing a Russian arms depot. 
The self-proclaimed republic of Transnistria seceded from Moldova in 1992 after a brief war with Chisinau. Around 1,500 Russian soldiers have been based there ever since. 
Fears of destabilization in the region grew after a Russian general said the Kremlin's offensive aimed to create a land corridor through southern Ukraine to Transnistria. 
Kyiv has accused Russia of wanting to destabilize the region to create a pretext for a military intervention. 
Russia's Defense Ministry said Thursday that it downed 13 Ukrainian drones in the southern Krasnodar region and areas close to the annexed Crimean peninsula. 
On Thursday morning, "five Ukrainian aerial drones were shot down by anti-aircraft defense systems in the Krasnodar region," the ministry said in a statement. 
Another eight drones were intercepted during the night "over the Black Sea, close to the Crimean coast," the statement added. 
The Defense Ministry said it also destroyed two Ukrainian naval drones in the Black Sea that were "heading for Crimea." 
Likewise, it said that eight U.S.-supplied ATACMS missiles were shot down by air defense systems over the Sea of Azov, near the annexed peninsula. 
Faced with more than two years of Russian bombardments, Ukraine has increasingly taken the fight to Russian soil, often targeting energy infrastructure across the border. 
Russia's deputy foreign minister on Wednesday acknowledged that detained U.S. reporter Evan Gershkovich had not been granted consular access, two weeks after his arrest. 
The Wall Street Journal journalist was arrested in Russia on claims of espionage, which he denies. 
"The question (of consular access) is under review," Sergei Ryabkov was cited as saying by state-run agencies. 
"We are acting in accordance with our laws, taking into account consular conventions of course," Ryabkov also said. 
"We won't tolerate any attempts to put pressure" on Russia, he said. 
The U.S. State Department has said it has sought consular access to Gershkovich since learning of his arrest. 
On Tuesday U.S. President Joe Biden declared the imprisonment "illegal" after the State Department classified the reporter as "wrongfully detained." 
Ryabkov said "for us, the status assigned in Washington does not matter." 
Gershkovich's arrest is seen as a serious escalation of Moscow's crackdown on the media. 
His publication and officials also denied the charges against him. 
Russia has classified his case as "secret," which limits the information available on it. 
Russia said Friday it had destroyed 16 Ukrainian drones in the south of the country and over the annexed Crimean peninsula. 
On Thursday night, "an attempt by the Kyiv regime to carry out a terrorist attack using aerial drones against sites on the territory of the Russian Federation was thwarted," Russia's Defense Ministry said. 
"Air defense systems destroyed 16 drones, including 13 over the Crimean peninsula and three over the territory of the Volgograd region." 
Ukraine has ramped up drone and missile attacks on Russian military installations in and around the peninsula in recent months. 
Crimea — annexed by Russia in 2014 — serves as the rear base for the Black Sea Fleet and a key supply route for Russian forces in southern and eastern Ukraine. 
Ukraine's military meanwhile said its air defense systems had downed three Iranian-designed attack drones launched by Russian forces overnight. 
They also said Russia had launched two guided air missiles but did not provide details. 
Russia foiled an attempted Ukrainian drone attack Tuesday morning, shooting down drones over the Black Sea and the annexed Crimean peninsula, Russia's Defense Ministry said. 
"On the morning of November 7, an attempt by the Kyiv regime to carry out a terrorist attack using 17 unmanned aerial vehicles against buildings on Russian territory was repelled," the Defense Ministry said. 
"Anti-aircraft defense systems destroyed nine Ukrainian drones and eight others were intercepted over the Black Sea and the territory of Crimea," it added. 
One man was left in serious condition after falling debris injured him, according to the Kremlin-installed head of Sevastopol Mikhail Razvozhayev. 
There were no other injuries or serious damage, Razvozhayev said. 
Moscow and Kyiv have launched regular overnight drone attacks against each other in the months since President Vladimir Putin ordered troops into Ukraine, with both sides usually claiming to have disabled or shot down dozens of aerial objects each week. 
Russia said Sunday its armed forces had seized the village of Ocheretyne in Ukraine's eastern Donetsk region, the latest in a string of small territorial gains for Moscow. 
After capturing the nearby industrial hub of Avdiivka in February, Russia has pressed its manpower and weapons advantage on the battlefield, advancing several kilometers deeper into Ukraine in places. 
The Defense Ministry said Russian troops had "completely liberated the village of Ocheretyne in the Donetsk People's Republic." 
Ocheretyne is around 15 kilometers northwest of Avdiivka. 
Ukraine's commander-in-chief Oleksandr Syrsky said last week that Kyiv had pulled back from three villages in the eastern Donetsk region and was building a new line of fortifications. 
Kyiv has struggled amid delays to vital Western weapons supplies in recent months and hopes the arrival of U.S. arms will help it stabilize the front lines. 
Russian forces shot down three missiles on Sunday targeting the Crimean peninsula, which Moscow annexed from Ukraine in 2014, a Russian official said. 
The peninsula is crucial to Russia's military offensive, both for supplying troops in southern Ukraine and for carrying out missile strikes from the sea. 
It is a regular target for Kyiv, and attacks on military installations there have intensified as Ukraine vows to recapture the peninsula. 
"Three enemy missiles heading toward Crimea were downed" in the Kherson region, its Moscow-installed official, Vladimir Saldo, said on Telegram. 
Last month, Ukraine launched an unprecedented missile strike on the naval headquarters on the peninsula. 
Moscow said one Russian serviceman was missing after the attack, which heavily damaged the building, while Kyiv claimed that the strike killed more than 30 officers. 
Russia said Friday that Palestinian leader Mahmoud Abbas had "postponed" a trip to Moscow that was planned for this month. 
Russia – which has working relations with Israel, with Palestinian authorities and with Hamas – has said several times that a visit by Abbas to Moscow was possible without previously giving a date. 
Russia's deputy foreign minister Mikhail Bogdanov told state media on Friday that a trip planned for November 15 had been moved. 
"It has been postponed. On the request of the Palestinian side," he said, cited by Russian news agencies. 
Bogdanov said Palestinian officials had informed Moscow that ‘the situation now is difficult’ and that Abbas "cannot leave the region". 
Bogdanov said Russia was "maintaining working contact [with the Palestinian side] constantly by phone". 
Russia has good relations with both Israel and Hamas, which it does not consider a terrorist organization. 
President Vladimir Putin has repeatedly called for a creation of a Palestinian state as a long-term solution to the conflict in Israel. 
Russia on Saturday said it captured a settlement in northeastern Ukraine, where Kyiv has reported increased attacks. 
"In the area of Kupiansk, as a result of the competent and professional actions of the military units of the Western command, the settlement of Novoselivske was liberated," the Russian Defense Ministry said on Telegram. 
It added "offensive operations on a broad front... improved the situation" of Russian forces. 
On Friday the Ukrainian army said it was confronted with a growing number of attacks in the east. 
"The number of enemy attacks has increased. Heavy fighting is taking place," army spokeswoman Ganna Malyar said on Telegram. 
Malyar said Russian troops were aiming to draw Ukrainian resources to that area, as Ukraine is pursuing its counteroffensive in the south. 
"In the Kupiansk sector, the enemy has set itself the goal of regaining the territories lost last fall," Malyar said. 
Late summer and autumn 2022, Ukraine retook swathes of territory around southern Kherson and northeastern Kharkiv in rapid counteroffensives. 
Ukraine began another push in June but is now contending with well-entrenched Russian defensive positions built over several months. 
Late July, Russia said it seized the village of Sergiivka in the eastern Donetsk region. 
Russia's Communist Party Leads Red Square Induction for Youth Movement 
May 20, 2024 - 03:04 pm 
Russia's Communist Party on Sunday marked Pioneer Day, a holiday dedicated to the Soviet Union's Young Pioneers movement, with an induction ceremony for its modern-day youth organization on Red Square. While the Young Pioneers was dissolved when the U.S.S.R. collapsed, Russian lawmakers in 2022 approved the creation of a new youth movement in the style of the Young Pioneers to mark the Soviet-era organization's 100th anniversary. The new movement, Dvizheniye pervykh (Movement of the First), was sanctioned by the European Union in February 2024 for "supporting ... actions which undermine and threaten the territorial integrity, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine, and stability and security in Ukraine." Here's a look at Sunday's event: 
Russian authorities have sought to instill values of patriotism and boost feelings of national pride among the country’s children in recent years. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
Red hats, white shirts and neckerchiefs are the traditional Young Pioneer uniform. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
Russia has regularly invoked Soviet-era imagery in recent decades, drawing criticism from observers who say this practice brushes over the Soviet Union's record of repressions. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
A girl holds a flag bearing the slogan "Be ready," invoking the original Young Pioneers slogan of "Always ready." 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
Movement of the First's goal is to organize education and leisure activities for youth and form a worldview "based on traditional Russian spiritual and moral goals." 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
A group of girls performs on Red Square as part of the induction ceremony. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
Communist Party leader Gennady Zyuganov said people came to Sunday's ceremony from 12 regions of Russia. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
A man wears a shirt featuring the Soviet Union's state emblem. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
Zyuganov greets an inductee. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
The organization's annual funding amounts to 19 billion rubles ($210.1 million), an amount comparable to the annual income of Russia's poorer regions. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
The EU sanctioned Grigory Gurov, the Movement of the First's chairman of the board, in February 2024. 
Yaroslav Chingaev / Moskva News Agency 
"The children who are members of the movement have meetings with soldiers who have fought in Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine, send cards and letters of support to soldiers and also prepare equipment to be used on the battlefield, and learn how to handle drones," the EU said when sanctioning Gurov. "Additionally, the Movement has organized war games for the children, which replicate and simulate battle situations," the EU said. 
Russia’s monthly fiscal deficit reached a record 3.9 trillion rubles in December amid the EU-imposed ban on seaborne crude oil exports and the increasing operational cost of Russia's invasion of Ukraine, according to preliminary budget data analyzed by Bloomberg. 
Finance Minister Anton Siluanov on Tuesday also confirmed that Russia’s total budget deficit in 2022 amounted to 3.3 trillion rubles ($47 billion) or 2.3% of the country’s GDP, making it the second-largest deficit in modern Russian history, surpassed only by that recorded in 2020, at the height of the coronavirus pandemic. 
Siluanov nevertheless remained optimistic about the resulting number during a Tuesday government meeting, noting that funds allocated to state non-budgetary funds through deferrals on insurance premiums” should be taken into account when analyzing the budget deficit size. 
If we subtract these funds from the volume of expenses, then the deficit amounted to 1.8% of gross domestic product, which is less than 2%, as planned,” Siluanov said. 
Russia’s total government spending in 2022 amounted to 31.11 trillion rubles, exceeding the pre-war forecast by over a third and the amount spent in 2021 by over a quarter. 
Taxes on export sales of oil, gas, and other commodities were the key source of Russia’s budget revenues in 2022. Revenues generated by taxes on oil sales increased by 33% year-on-year, while tax revenue from gas sales also increased by more than three times. 
However, in light of the recent EU sanctions and the bloc's gas price cap, the budget will no longer be able to rely on commodity exports in 2023. 
Russia is heading into the new year without this big cushion, without the European market for gas exports, with much lower oil prices and lower oil export volumes,” economist Janis Kluge of the German Institute for International and Security Affairs said in an interview with The Moscow Times earlier this month, adding that this was going to be a big problem.” 
Israel and Iran's exchange of strikes over the past week has fueled fears that the longstanding enmity between the two countries could spill over into all-out war as Israel continues its offensive on Gaza in the wake of the attack on Israel by the Tehran-backed Palestinian militant group Hamas. 
Moscow has traditionally tried to maintain relations with all the major powers in the Middle East. But the war in Ukraine has brought Moscow and Tehran especially close, with the same Shahed drones that targeted Israel having been used to deadly effect against Ukrainian cities and infrastructure. 
For this episode, we decided to explore Russia's place in the region through Iranian and Israeli eyes. We speak to Rajan Menon, director of the Grand Strategy Program at the U.S. think tank Defense Priorities, about Russia’s ties with Iran. We also spoke to Israeli journalist Milan Czerny about how relations between Russia and Israel have changed over recent months. 
Russia on the Record is a podcast where Moscow Times journalists, independent experts and ordinary Russians reflect, analyze and explain what’s going on in Russia right now. 
Russian officials are working to lure back the hundreds of thousands of citizens who moved abroad since the launch of the country's military offensive against Ukraine — but have so far given them little, if any, incentive to go back. 
Between 700,000 and 1.5 million Russians are estimated to have left the country following the February 2022 offensive, either out of opposition to the war or fear of being sent to the frontlines. 
For the Kremlin, this mass exodus of predominantly young, educated workers — widely called relokanti (which translates to those who’ve relocated”) — is a matter of urgency, as it exacerbates the country’s economic and demographic woes, the latter of which Moscow considers a national security issue. 
President Vladimir Putin in June claimed that half of the Russians who left the country after the start of the conflict have since returned, and more of them are still returning. 
His speech at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum prompted officials, such as State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin, to renew calls for emigres to come home. 
Our citizens who remain in Western countries need to think about where they went, what they found, and what awaits them,” Volodin wrote on his Telegram channel. Considering what is happening, it is right to finally start being rational. Today there is an opportunity to return, but tomorrow, due to the hysteria being whipped up in Western Europe, [this opportunity] might be gone.” 
Pro-Kremlin journalist Alexander Kots published a letter in the Komsomolskaya Pravda tabloid which he purported was written by an IT specialist who left Russia for Europe after February 2022, but soon faced Russophobia and a lack of social support. Until recently, the IT specialist described himself as a liberal,” but meeting a Serbian man who compared present-day Russia to Yugoslavia in the 1990s changed his mind. 
I returned to Russia, and I am very happy about it,” the letter’s author — who many speculated was Kots himself — wrote. I’m not leaving my homeland again. I will raise my son (or more than one son, if God wills it) here and will pass all this on to him. And I won’t let my homeland down now, believe me.” 
Despite officials’ calls and propaganda efforts, no substantial incentives to lure back Russian emigres have emerged. 
While a reverse relocation” program for IT specialists was discussed in 2022, it was ultimately not needed, digital development minister Maksut Shadayev claimed, as those who left Russia were returning on their own. He said that deferment from military service for IT workers and the fact that "life in Russia is in many ways better" than abroad had lured many back. 
Meanwhile, calls to draw up punishments for wartime emigres by more hardline officials have persisted. On June 21, Senator Andrei Klimov, the head of the Federation Council’s commission on protecting state sovereignty and preventing interference in domestic affairs, suggested that Russians returning to the country from abroad could be inspected for treason. 
Our opponents did not miss the opportunity to expand the ranks of their henchmen and agents through recruitment activities among the so-called relokanti,” he said. 
According to journalist and politician Yevgeniya Baltatarova, the dissonance between officials’ calls to incentivize and punish emigres is due to the fact that politicians are more focused on pleasing Putin than building a clear strategy for attracting emigres. 
[Putin] was offended that Russians did not support the mobilization, and they tried to play along with him,” she said. But also there is also a more liberal bloc in the government, and they understand that the loss of a huge number of educated, ambitious people entails economic losses. That’s why the rhetoric of the authorities varies from the imprisonment of emigres to the calls for them to return.” 
Nevertheless, some Russian emigres do return to the country. Sociologist Lyubov Borusyak, who has been researching Russian emigration since the invasion of Ukraine, said many of those coming back are emigres from the second wave, which was sparked by Putin’s mobilization for the war in Ukraine. 
The main reason they return is the lack of employment and money. Mostly, they departed spontaneously and in a panic,” she said. People without a financial cushion had to return.” 
Ivan, who asked that his name be changed, fled to Kazakhstan in September 2022 after Russia declared its military mobilization. Because he had to quit his office job in Russia, Ivan lived off his savings and money earned from renting out his flat in Moscow until he could find a job in Almaty. 
The real estate market was overheated, and it turned out that I was working for 35,000 rubles [per month], and renting an apartment for 40,000,” he said. After three months, I decided to return to Moscow. There was not enough money, I was tired mentally and physically, and I felt lonely. I just wanted to return and rebuild my financial independence.” 
Baltatarova noted that Russian state media does little to encourage emigres to come back. 
People have been returning, not because they believed someone [in the government], but because they see that the situation is much less chaotic compared to September, and by adhering to security measures, they can somehow avoid mobilization and other threats.” 
Those who decide to come back tend not to believe officials’ promises and carefully prepare for their return. 
Anatoly, who asked that his name be changed, left Russia in March 2022 and has been traveling in Southeast Asia while working remotely. He said he now plans to go back to Russia to finish the paperwork for his final relocation, but is concerned about legal issues. 
Most likely, I will go back for just two weeks,” he said. I am planning to withdraw from military registration [the database of men eligible for conscription] using a power of attorney, and by law I cannot stay in Russia longer without [this] registration.” 
Brief sojourns like Anatoly's make it difficult to accurately measure how many Russian emigres are returning home for good. 
We don’t know the scale of this return process, and we will never know,” said Borusyak. The estimates of those who left are rather rough, and the estimates of those who returned are even rougher.” 
Russia’s forest fires spread by a record margin on Monday, making the current wildfire season the country’s third-largest this century as smoke from the blazes wafts over huge expanses of Siberia, experts from Greenpeace Russia reported. 
The fires grew by 0.6 million hectares — 98% of which were located in the far northeastern republic of Sakha, also known as Yakutia — on Aug. 2, a record for 2021 so far, the environmental group said. 
Colossal forest fires have now devastated 13.4 million hectares of land — an area roughly the size of Greece — in Russia so far in 2021, Greenpeace wrote, citing official data. Only 2003 and 2012 experienced more widespread wildfires by the same point in the season. 
This year’s wildfires have hit particularly hard in Sakha, where a state of emergency has been in place in several districts including its capital of Yakutsk for over a month and where firefighting planes were unable to take off this week due to thick smoke. 
Smoke from the Sakha forest fires now covers an area of 5.3 million square kilometers, an area larger than the European Union, according to NASA. 
While wildfires are an annual occurrence in Siberia, the accelerating effects of climate change are believed to be making them increasingly devastating. 
[Growth in forest fires] is linked to accelerating climate changes. The fire seasons get longer and longer, while droughts become more frequent, long and intense,” the environmental group’s forestry expert Alexei Yaroshenko said. 
A Russian court has ruled that Deutsche Bank and UniCredit's assets in Russia are to be seized, documents showed. 
European banks have largely exited Russia after Moscow launched its offensive on Kyiv in 2022. 
A court in St. Petersburg ruled in favor of seizing 239 million euros ($260 million) from Deutsche Bank, documents dated May 16 showed. 
The same day, it ordered the seizure of around 463 million euros ($504 million) worth of assets belonging to Italy's UniCredit. 
Both decisions were issued in answer to a request from RusKhimAlians, which was planning to build a major gas processing and liquefaction plant in cooperation with German company Linde, which pulled out of the project due to Russia's military assault. 
RusKhimAlians sued UniCredit and Deutsche Bank — both guarantors of the project. 
UniCredit was one of the European banks most exposed to Russia when Moscow started its 2022 campaign in Ukraine, with a large local subsidiary operating in the country. 
It began preliminary discussions on a sale last year, but the talks haven't advanced. 
Chief executive Andrea Orcel said UniCredit wants to leave Russia, but said that gifting an operation worth 3 billion euros was not a good way to respect the spirit of Western sanctions on Moscow over the war. 
Nevertheless, UniCredit has gradually reduced its exposure to Russia and managed to increase the ratio of its capital to risk-weighted assets to 16% from 15% last year. 
Russia detained three North Korean vessels and more than 200 crew on Friday in the second such incident in two weeks as part of a clampdown on poaching by the secretive nation's fishermen. 
The detentions mark rare confrontation between North Korea and Russia, which sees itself as an important player in international talks on defusing nuclear tensions around the reclusive state's missile program. 
Border guards impounded the vessels and detained 262 crew members, Interfax said, in waters off Russian's far eastern coast that Moscow considers its exclusive economic zone. The border guards could be seen boarding the vessels in body armor in footage released by the Federal Security Service. 
Border guards said they had seized more than 30,000 squid and illegal fishing equipment and were holding the vessels and several motorboats at the port of Nakhodka. 
The Kremlin said the move would not damage its ties with Pyongyang. 
"A lot of North Korean poachers cross Russia's border and poach illegally in Russian territorial waters so of course energetic measures are needed to impose order in this area," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. 
Food shortages 
North Korea, which is reeling under sanctions over its weapons program, has struggled with food shortages and a dysfunctional state rationing system for years. 
Its crop production this year is expected to drop to its lowest in five years, bringing serious shortages to 40% of the population, the United Nations said last week. 
Russia detained two North Korean boats in its territorial waters in the Sea of Japan on Sept. 17 after one of them attacked a Russian patrol. 
In that incident, Russia said it detained a vessel for poaching, prompting a second boat to open fire. Several border guards and alleged poachers were hurt and one of the North Koreans later died from his wounds. 
Moscow summoned a North Korean diplomat over the incident. 
A regional border official at the Federal Security Service said last week the poachers had resisted because they feared punishment back home for loss of state property over the confiscation of their vessel. 
The countries have had disputes over fishing in the region in the past. Moscow accused Pyongyang in July of illegally detaining one of its fishing vessels. North Korea said the crew had been detained for breaching the rules for entering its territory. 
Russian IT specialists based abroad are increasingly eyeing jobs at Western IT companies amid growing worries that their days of being permitted to work remotely for Russian firms are numbered. 
Western tech startups and firms, meanwhile, appear to be interested in capitalizing on this highly skilled and less costly workforce, actively recruiting Russian tech workers based outside the country. 
Russia’s vibrant IT sector has been one of the country’s hardest-hit industries since the invasion of Ukraine. It’s estimated that between 700,000 to 1.5 million tech workers left Russia after February 2022 out of opposition to the war, fear of being mobilized or economic concerns. 
Many of these professionals are now regularly sent messages on Linkedin from IT recruiters or tech companies based in Europe, Britain and the United States, several of them told The Moscow Times. 
Oftentimes they ask for a general chat to gauge my interest, but I’ve also had full job interviews,” said Sergei, a data engineer living in Serbia. 
Sergei said he has been approached by IT recruiters offering both full relocation and remote work. Startups, second-stage startups and gaming companies such as Space Ape in London also sought him out. Some of these recruiters have been from European or U.S.-based Russian companies like Nitka or Luxoft, which also relocated abroad when the war started. 
I match the skills needed, but the main thing is to prove my level of English,” said Sergei, who asked that his surname not be shared due to worries of repercussions from his employer or the Russian government. 
Sergei still works for a Russian company, as do most of the Russian tech diaspora, which now numbers in the hundreds of thousands. These specialists work remotely while living in countries like Armenia, Georgia, Kazakhstan and Serbia. 
Russian officials have sought to lure these IT-shniki (a Russian term for IT workers) back. 
But none of Moscow’s discussions on reverse relocation” initiatives have yet materialized into concrete measures. Digital Development Minister Maksut Shadayev claimed these measures were unnecessary because emigres were already returning on their own. 
Many IT specialists who fled after the invasion have indeed returned to Russia, faced with financial strain abroad or lured by the exemption from military service for tech workers and the prospect of a stable life at home. Still, it’s estimated that over half of those who left since February 2022 remain abroad. 
For those now looking to relocate further West, a host of IT recruitment firms has been offering specialized services for companies hiring Russians, including EU-based Scede, Lucky Hunters and Recruiter.com. 
Russian IT specialists are still desirable personnel for Western companies despite the geopolitical situation,” Fyodor Chemashkin, technical director of Yakov and Partners consulting firm, told the Kommersant business daily. 
Forums offer advice on securing visas and paying remote workers. They also compile statistics that state things like developers in Russia are ranked second in HackerRank’s list of the best developers in the world.” 
George Rowberry from MODE, a recruitment partner to startups and SMEs in Germany and the U.K., has been hiring Russian, Ukrainian and eastern European IT workers since 2017. He said he has seen a spike in candidates from these countries since the war began. 
The war has created motivation for people to leave those areas even more so than before,” Rowberry said. Often these people who are going through pretty awful times outside of their work really want the job and they do well in interview processes.” 
These candidates are really good because the level of technical universities in those countries tends to be really high, and the level of English is generally good among those working in the tech sector.” 
Western European IT workers in comparison are more in demand and more costly. So we offer some candidates from Russia or elsewhere who a company can relocate,” he said. 
Rowberry’s team finds candidates through Linkedin, searching for their stack,” or specific set of skills. Many Russians display an #opentowork tag on their LinkedIn profile photo, he said. 
MODE also keeps an eye on developments in Russia and Ukraine. For instance, the recent $5.2 billion takeover of Yandex’s Russian assets by a consortium of investors believed to be close to the Kremlin has worried some remote Yandex employees as the company restructures and reallocates its spending. 
In February 2023, lawmakers passed legislation that would prohibit employees of IT companies that work for the government or handle sensitive state information from working remotely. The law does not state how it will trace or penalize those who’ve remained abroad. 
State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin in December 2022 called for higher taxation for Russians who have moved abroad. 
A Serbia-based data engineer from Russia who spoke on condition of anonymity recently moved from Yandex’s Serbian office to Microsoft’s Belgrade headquarters. He said he received requests from his former Yandex colleagues for more information about making a similar move. 
We would obviously go and target those companies because those people tend to be more likely to be able to move,” Rowberry said. 
Are Russians taking up the offers? 
MODE said it has seen a significant increase in candidates keen to talk about moving to Western companies, but that this hasn’t yet translated into an exodus into new jobs. 
At this stage, it seems people are gauging interest,” said Rowberry. 
Salary concerns are often cited as the reason why Russian tech workers stay in their current jobs. 
Yevgeny, who works for a Russian IT company from Kazakhstan, was approached by U.K. and Estonian tech companies. 
Neither offered anything new; it was the same position, salary and projects. The only benefit was relocation,” he said. 
He ultimately chose to stay in Kazakhstan and continue working for his Russian employer. 
The salaries Western companies offer are no higher than Russian companies,” said Alexei, who is based in Georgia. 
In Georgia, I can live very well on my salary. But if I have to relocate to Europe, my salary won’t go as far. Stable countries are expensive.” 
Sergei in Serbia said he fears Russia’s tolerance for remote tech workers will soon run out. Though he is keen to find a job at a Western company, he said he becomes annoyed when recruiters offer him a lower starting salary. 
Is it because I’m Russian?” he asked rhetorically. 
These professionals may soon find themselves in an oversaturated job market as more Russian IT workers seek to move to Western Europe. 
Demand for EU residence permits among Russia-based IT specialists surged by 233% in the first quarter of 2024 compared with the same period of 2023, the Kommersant business daily reported Friday. 
Danya, who already lives in Germany, said that although he’s been inundated with messages on Linkedin, he has so far found it challenging to actually secure a job. 
There’s a hot pursuit for tech jobs right now,” he said. On LinkedIn, there will already be 100 applications for a job just one hour after it’s posted. I had to register for alerts on the career sites of all the companies I wanted [to work for] so I could be among the first applicants. I set a loud alert on my phone. Only after I switched to that strategy did I finally start getting interviews.” 
Without the resources or political will to pursue a policy of climate adaptation, experts warn that this spring's disaster will become the new norm. 
When the water started rising sharply in Orenburg, a regional capital near Russia’s border with Kazakhstan, Veronika realized that a gigantic tragedy” was unfolding before her eyes. 
It was such a terrible, nerve-wracking situation because the water kept rising and rising,” Orenburg resident Veronika told The Moscow Times. Every day you wake up, scroll through the news feed, and all of Orenburg is occupied by checking the level of the Ural River every hour.” 
Since the river started flooding the city on April 5, breaking the record set in 1942 a week later, Orenburg residents have been gripped by anxiety, said Veronika, who asked to change her name due to the potential risks of speaking to a media outlet labeled as a foreign agent” by Russia. 
The many cottages and high-rise buildings built along the banks of the Ural in recent decades all succumbed to the terribly powerful” stream of water that overwhelmed city dams, she said. 
My acquaintances just moved into their home in December, and now it's completely submerged. The water just started rising suddenly, and they only managed to salvage a minimal amount of belongings. There are countless stories like this.” 
Russia's flood crisis this month has seen entire settlements plunged underwater and thousands evacuated in regions spanning from the Urals and western Siberia to the Far East Khabarovsk region. 
While Russia regularly sees springtime flooding, this year’s floods were exacerbated by the sudden onset of warm weather following a winter that had brought above-average snowfall, experts said. 
The authorities' response could serve as a test of the country’s readiness for the climate crisis, which scientists say will bring more frequent and destructive extreme weather events as it intensifies. 
Without the resources or political will to pursue a sound policy of climate adaptation, experts warn that this spring’s disaster will become the new norm. 
'Battle for a dam' 
At its peak last week, the floods submerged almost 18,000 homes and 32,600 land plots in 210 Russian towns and cities, with the Kurgan and Orenburg regions hit the hardest. At least seven people died in the Orenburg region as a result of the flooding, the IStories investigative news outlet reported. 
Flood-stricken regions entered a round-the-clock state of emergency that saw both an official response and volunteer efforts. 
"The whole city came together to build dams out of sandbags to protect the city," Anna, a resident of Kurgan, the regional capital of the Kurgan region in western Siberia, told The Moscow Times. 
The region’s flooding was its worst in 75 years, submerging nearly 2,000 homes and forcing over 15,000 people to evacuate. 
Veronika from Orenburg described a battle for a dam” in her city as locals, volunteers and emergency services worked day and night to build up the dam using gravel, soil and clay to prevent the flooding from spreading. 
People in many regions, not counting on officials’ help, resorted to building dams themselves, but in some cases were asked by officials to dismantle them under the threat of fines. 
Russia’s Natural Resources Ministry later said that the construction of dams should be based on engineering calculations and that self-built dams are illegal. 
Beyond the makeshift dams, many people have tried to help by rescuing stranded people and animals on dinghies, organizing temporary shelters or providing humanitarian aid. 
"People help each other in every possible way. Some with money, some with hands, some with goods. We constantly deliver essential products to these temporary shelters … so people can wash and have something for themselves in this temporary home,” Veronika said. 
Flooded areas also received help from elsewhere in Russia. Authorities from Moscow visited the affected zones and supervised rescue efforts, while regional governments delivered food, water and medications. 
Refused to be saved 
In the Kurgan region, authorities issued warnings and launched evacuation well in advance, Anna said. They also vaccinated residents of flood-prone areas against the hepatitis A virus. 
"All services are operating in emergency mode. The sirens have been sounding for several days," Anna told The Moscow Times last week. 
However, many refused to evacuate despite Governor Vadim Shumkov’s repeated calls to citizens on his Telegram channel. 
Thousands of people … are working tirelessly. However, they cannot be fully effective without your help. … Do not hide, do not run away from the evacuation groups and do not return after they leave,” Shumkov said last week as the flood waters rapidly approached Kurgan. 
Fellow citizens, we cannot rely on chance or assume that past floods were manageable. This is not just a flood, it is a real threat!” he added. 
At first, many residents assumed the city administration was exaggerating the risk, only realizing later that the situation was serious, Anna said. 
In the Orenburg region, people feared looters and scams after unknown individuals posing as members of a trusted volunteer organization stole people’s boats, said Veronika. 
Opinions of the government's response to the disaster varied. 
Anna said she believes that the Kurgan authorities effectively managed the crisis, as everything was announced in advance, everyone was organized, and all information was provided.” 
We currently have a good governor. He is genuinely doing something for the region,” Anna said. 
Locals in the Orenburg region were less satisfied. In Orsk, one of the worst-hit cities in the region, residents took to the streets on April 8 to demand proper compensation. Two weeks later, a local woman lambasted Orsk Mayor Vasily Kozupitsa for the lack of adequate assistance during his meeting with residents, a video circulating online showed. 
[We] can't reach anyone, no one responds — and you sit there, everything's fine for you. Have some conscience at last! You're in your white shirt while we've been struggling for two weeks without money, without anything,” the unidentified woman said. 
Kozupitsa pledged compensation of 100,000 rubles ($1,080) to each affected individual in Orsk. 
The Orenburg region government provides 100,000 rubles to those who completely lost their property. People injured by the floods qualify for payments between 200,000 ($2,160) and 400,000 rubles ($4,300), while families of the deceased can count on 1 million rubles ($10,800). 
In comparison, authorities in some Russian regions offer a one-time payment of 400,000 or 700,000 rubles for signing a military contract — with the Krasnodar region promising 1 million rubles for military sign-ups. 
As of Wednesday, 46,400 residents of the Orenburg region have received payments. 
President Vladimir Putin slammed regional leaders on Wednesday for their handling of the financial aid for flood victims, noting that the number of people who applied for compensation in the Orenburg region was nine times higher than those who have already received it. 
Orenburg region Governor Denis Pasler said this was because many people who applied lived in non-affected areas. 
While Veronika acknowledged that regions likely lack the resources to adequately prepare for disasters like the Orenburg region floods, she has many questions for the authorities — in particular about future financial support for the flood victims and whether people should even keep living in the affected areas. 
What’s next 
After the flood waters subside and the media coverage wanes, thousands of homes will still be left in ruins. Many Russians lack the financial means to rebuild their houses, making continuous financial support from the state vital — but this aid is not guaranteed. 
Scientists also predict that floods will become increasingly frequent and severe in a warming world, even though it might not be possible to immediately link a given disaster to climate change. 
More frequent natural disasters can drain individual capacities for adaptation, both financially and psychologically. Once one restores their house and mental health after a flood, the next incident could be just around the corner — putting them back at square one. 
Yet Veronika and Anna said climate change is not an issue that is normally discussed in their communities. 
In addition to taking immediate steps to prevent future catastrophes — such as revising urban planning and dam construction regulations — Russia will need to constantly adapt to worsening conditions as global climate change intensifies, a Russian climate expert told The Moscow Times. 
The expert requested anonymity due to their affiliation with a group targeted by the Russian authorities. 
Currently, there is no strong public demand for policymakers to address climate change like there is for economic, crime and nuclear safety issues, the expert said. 
We need to start by honestly talking about the climate crisis and by stopping all these fake stories about climate weapons, climate antennas in Alaska, 'LGBT sins' — there's no end to what [public discussion] blames for the floods and wildfires,” the expert said. 
Instead, we need to explain it from the perspective of the scientific consensus [on human-made climate change].” 
The expert added that businesses in Russia should take preventive steps like avoiding building in flood-prone areas, which he said should also be prohibited by the government. 
Future floods are likely to set new precedents of damage given that Russia currently lacks viable climate adaptation plans, said Vladimir Slivyak, co-chairman of the environmental group Ecodefense. 
"Adaptation plans cannot prevent disasters but can significantly reduce their consequences. For instance, such plans could involve inspecting dams in regions to determine where reinforcement is necessary,” Slivyak told The Moscow Times. 
However, Moscow is not interested in climate adaptation for now, Slivyak said. 
"In a large country like Russia, adaptation is very expensive. But the money spent on the war would be enough,” he said. 
However, this is not a government priority, so changes are not expected yet, and the [Russian] population will continue to suffer from climate change." 
We look at the crackdown on environmental activism almost a month after Russia’s oldest human rights group, Memorial, was liquidated. Our correspondents Anastasia and Ivan Shteynert report on the impact of the so-called foreign agents' law on environmental activism in St. Petersburg and beyond. Vitaly Servetnik, a campaigner at Russia’s Friends of the Earth and the Russian Social Ecological Union, takes us through the nuts and bolts of the legislation and explains why environmentalists are set to be the next targets of the Putin regime after human rights activists. 
Russia’s independent Dozhd news channel has been hit by a tax audit Thursday over what its founder says is connected to its coverage of rallies for fair elections in Moscow. 
Dozhd opened its broadcasts to non-subscribers last Friday to cover the weekend’s rallies in support of opposition candidates who had been disqualified from running for the city legislature. The next day, as authorities rounded up more than 1,300 protesters, police also raided the Dozhd studios in Moscow and summoned its chief editor in connection with a criminal investigation into the protests. 
Judging by the list of requested information, our work in recent days and this audit are interrelated,” Dozhd founder Natalya Sindeyeva told the Kommersant business daily. 
Earlier on Thursday, Dozhd had dismissed as fake” anonymous reports that Russia’s Investigative Committee sent the channel a letter thanking it for its live coverage of the protests on Saturday. 
The Investigative Committee opened criminal proceedings this week and have detained at least five suspects on charges of inciting mass civil unrest.” 
Auditors, prosecutors and emergency officials previously came to Dozhd with an inspection in 2015. 
Several major cable providers dropped Dozhd in 2014, four years after it was established, in a move some say was orchestrated by the Kremlin as part of a wider media crackdown. 
Russia’s exclusion from the international scientific community since the start of the war in Ukraine hampers global researchers’ understanding of the Arctic at a time when climate change is rapidly changing the region’s ecosystems, according to a new study published in the British scientific journal Nature. 
The study’s authors found that removing Russian field stations from the International Network for Terrestrial Research and Monitoring in the Arctic (INTERACT) — a global constellation of 60 field stations in the Arctic and other northern latitudes — led to a marked” loss of data used to monitor changes in ecosystems. 
Moreover, Siberia’s extensive taiga forest is not represented at all when Russian stations are excluded from the network — which the authors warn could be particularly detrimental” for monitoring melting permafrost, an area of major concern for climate scientists. 
As ground-based observations that form the basis for assessments of the region’s state will now come mainly from the non-Russian parts of the Arctic, the overall ability to monitor the status and trajectory of the Arctic biome may be severely limited over the foreseeable future,” the authors write. 
Because of the geopolitical consequences of the Russian attack on Ukraine, the ability to both track and further project the development of the Arctic biome following climate-induced ecosystem change has deteriorated,” they continue. 
The study's authors urge the global scientific community to strive for establishing and improving a research infrastructure and standardized monitoring programs representative of the entire Arctic,” which they argue can be accomplished in part by promoting open-access data sharing. 
Sadly, until that is implemented, the ability to support and advise local and global communities will decrease further due to the loss of Russian stations representing half of the Arctic’s landmass,” they conclude. 
Following Moscow's invasion of Ukraine in February 2022, Russian researchers across all disciplines have lost access to most foreign databases, digital libraries and scientific cloud infrastructure. 
Russia’s Defense Ministry has pledged to address the polar bear invasion that has struck panic in a remote Arctic settlement in recent weeks. 
Polar bears began to descend on Russia’s Novaya Zemlya archipelago, population 3,000, driven from their habitat by food scarcity fueled by climate change, according to WWF experts. The authorities in the Arkhangelsk region, which oversees the archipelago, declared a state of emergency this weekend after at least 52 polar bears were seen rummaging through garbage and roaming apartment blocks. 
The Defense Ministry has teamed up with the local administration and environmental experts to prevent the invasion of this large predator,” the ministry’s Krasnaya Zvezda newspaper reported Friday. 
The administration will reportedly prioritize construction of a waste incineration facility, originally scheduled for 2021, this year and in 2020. 
Russian law prohibits shooting polar bears, which are classified as an endangered species in the country. 
Andrei Belousov’s sudden elevation to defense minister has thrust the governance of Russia’s economy back into the limelight. It also caps off a long-running effort on Belousov’s part to break the economy out of its period of low growth, an effort now inseparable from the requirements of the war with Ukraine. 
Even in a system driven by personal loyalties and self-interest, ideas matter. Belousov has long been one of Russia’s most credible proponents of state intervention within a market economy. This credibility was won by decades of experience as a forecaster sifting through the minutiae of economic statistics before joining the Economic Development Ministry and presidential administration. 
He became a leading advisor within the Kremlin in 2013, when he railed against fears of stagnation among the much-vaunted technocracy. His reasoning that Russia’s stagnation is a product of poor thinking rather than a lack of reserves matters a great deal today. 
When a country like Russia has a large trade surplus it implies the existence of a large pool of savings because it is producing more than it is consuming. As a matter of somewhat simplified accounting, it follows that a nation’s output exceeds its total consumption, investments, and government expenditures. The balance between savings and investment determines the trade balance. Surplus economies have savings to spare. 
Under intense financial sanctions, the room to run down currency reserves to back spending becomes limited. But so long as oil exports sustain a large trade surplus, foreign currency and savings to invest are available. Little wonder why last year’s three-year budget announcement was foregrounded with talk of the need to mobilize the country’s financial resources for its development. 
Belousov’s name is now associated with the buzz phrase military Keynesianism.” But this is an exaggeration. Russia’s technocrats are so enamored with neoclassical thinking about state spending that anyone who suggests even the smallest amount of intervention is Keynesian in comparison. 
In the 12 years before 2022, Russia’s collective consolidated budget ran a cumulative deficit of less than 1% of GDP. This is despite multiple external shocks and the immense need for social spending and capital investment the country faces. Even now, official budget targets attempt to limit deficit spending to roughly 2% of GDP, showing an orthodoxy averse to Keynesian levels of spending. 
Nor can the current economy be neatly described as wartime Keynesianism, despite the growth effect of military spending and consumption. Much of the wartime growth model’s success has come from the perversely positive effects of Russia’s poor demographics and past austerity policies on the labor market. For example, military spending on regions lacking other sources of employment or high incomes has brought large numbers of Russians into the formal job market, including pensioners in need of extra income. 
But the few signs of success in Russia’s wartime economy, like rising wages, only expose its weaknesses and the unsuitability of the wartime Keynesian” label. It is a shortage of labor and materials for construction and manufacturing — not money — that is causing Russia’s economic challenges. While military-industrial output has risen dramatically since 2022, civilian output has largely remained flat. Most of the output increase has depended on maximizing what existing factories and assets can do or redirecting their capacity toward the war. Higher wages have allowed Russians to buy more imports or invest more in domestic real estate. Further increases require higher levels of investment outside of the defense sector and, most importantly, more people. 
In short, Russia’s economic constraints are material, not financial. Shortages of labor may lead to high wages and greater tax revenues, but they also create large inflation risks as businesses raise prices to offset labor costs. So do any increases in imports to buy consumer goods since they eat into the country’s trade surplus, weakening the ruble. 
Inflation is the primary restraint on how much the Russian state can spend as money collides with the limited availability of labor and materials. However, the imposition of capital controls has weakened traditional channels affecting inflation through the exchange rate. Economic Development Minister Maxim Reshetnikov has openly acknowledged the economy can develop with inflation running above the central bank’s target. Clearly, a rethink of running the economy like this is underway, as previously held assumptions that keeping interest rates down is less important than maintaining demand have been shown to no longer work in wartime. 
Belousov was the leading administrator within the cabinet during Covid to articulate a rough system of inflation management for key commodity inputs, namely grain and other foods and metals products used for construction. The state applies export duties at certain price levels for different commodities to force domestic producers to redirect their production to the domestic market. There, informal pressure, agreements, and controls on tariffs protect consumers by limiting further price increases among wholesalers and retailers. 
Looking forward, similar arrangements may become more commonplace for labor and elsewhere across the economy. Overseeing years of tax negotiations with the metallurgical sector is equally important given their role in supplying inputs for the war. Social unrest associated with rapid price increases must be minimized while maximizing production. 
Considering this, Belousov’s rise illustrates the limits of the belief that there truly is an economic technocracy who are the adults in the room. That the current surge in defense spending has produced more growth than anticipated is a testament to how much the technocrats strangled growth in past years when the economy suffered a shortage of aggregate demand and capital investment into infrastructure and other needs. 
Sanctions have undoubtedly harmed the Russian economy. Their unintentional legacy may have been to force Putin to fully commit to a new economic growth model after refusing to do so for more than a decade. 
As early as 2016-2017, Rostec chief Sergei Chemezov lobbied the government to rely on military-industrial firms to diversify into civilian production. Observers should not forget that in 2021, Putin signed off on nominal targets for half of the defense sector’s production to be oriented toward the civilian economy by 2030. Defense spending’s multiplier effect will be stretched further. 
We can already see this thinking at work with the Defense Ministry, where Belousov has been tasked with managing the coordination and procurement of domestic and foreign dual-use goods. One way around inflationary bottlenecks for further growth is to find ways to leverage defense manufacturing sites that have become more efficient by necessity to produce more civilian goods, especially dual-use ones, in tandem. 
The more that is spent on the war, the more it drives the economy. The more the war drives the economy, the more interests are invested in continuing fighting and thus the new spending and growth paradigm. Putin is not just settling into an industrial struggle. He is creating an enduring material base for his regime from this forever war.” 
Belousov’s task today is thankless, akin to overseeing the acceleration of a model that is destroying future growth by transferring countless lives and resources to grisly ends or unproductive uses. There is no viable way to sustain current conditions indefinitely, especially as the oil demand outlook shifts. Even if he cannot fix the economy, he will remain its chief fixer. The relatively easy part of adapting to sanctions is over. What comes next will require increasingly difficult tradeoffs. 
This article does not represent the views of the author’s employer. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
The mayor of the southern Russian city of Orenburg urged residents to evacuate immediately on Friday as water in the nearby Ural River reached critically dangerous levels and was not expected to recede until next week. 
The sound of sirens is heard in the city. This is not a drill. A mass evacuation is underway,” Orenburg Mayor Sergei Salmin wrote on the messaging app Telegram. The situation is critical, do not waste time!” 
Over the past 10 hours, the water level in the Ural [River] has risen by 40 centimeters and now stands at 11.43 [meters]. These numbers are dangerous,” the mayor added. 
Scores of homes and properties in Orenburg were submerged underwater on Friday, as authorities warned that water levels in the Ural River, the third-longest in Europe, would remain critical” over the next two days before gradually receding early next week. 
In some parts of the city, which has a population of 550,000 people, only the roofs of houses could be seen rising above the flood waters. 
Orenburg’s meteorological center forecasts that the peak of the flood is expected today, April 12, followed by two days of stability, after which the water level will decrease,” deputy mayor Alexei Kudinov told reporters. Local authorities warned of power outages in the most affected areas until the water recedes. 
Almost 12,000 homes and 15,000 land plots were flooded across the Orenburg region, its governor Denis Pasler told President Vladimir Putin on Thursday evening. Kudinov said more than 2,500 homes and nearly 5,000 land plots were flooded in the city of Orenburg as of early Friday. 
Several villages have also been evacuated in the Kurgan and Tomsk regions further to the east. 
Meanwhile, in Western Siberia, the Ishim River has also risen to dangerous levels, according to authorities in the Tyumen region. Officials predict that the Ishim and Tobol rivers will reach peak levels only around April 23-25. 
Overall, Russia estimates that 10,500 homes have been flooded across 37 regions. 
Fast-rising temperatures have melted snow and ice, and along with heavy rains have caused a number of major rivers that stretch across Russia and northern Kazakhstan to overflow. Around 120,000 people in both countries have been forced to evacuate their homes. 
No direct link has been made between the floods and climate change, but experts say rising temperatures across the planet cause rapid snowmelt and heavy rains that lead to unprecedented flooding. 
There are many casualties of the invasion of Ukraine that will haunt Russia for generations to come. Far from the battlefields, in the country’s northwest loom radioactive threats that remain only half cleaned up and largely ignored. 
The Russian Arctic stands to remain one of the most contaminated places on the planet. From old Soviet nuclear submarine bases and maintenance yards on shore to discarded reactors, radioactive waste, and — in some cases — entire nuclear submarines that were intentionally scuttled at sea. 
Sadly, it didn’t have to be this way. Following the fall of the Soviet Union, a consortium of Western governments pitched in to help decontaminate the remains of the once-feared Soviet nuclear submarine fleet. Throughout the late 1990s and early 2000s, a total of 198 rusted-out and derelict subs still loaded with spent uranium fuel were safely dismantled through bilateral funding agreements and scientific exchanges with European countries. 
But ever since Russian tanks rolled into Ukraine in February 2022, that cooperation has ground to a halt. 
The Kremlin insisted at the time that it could continue the nuclear cleanup on its own. But as shown in our new report at Bellona, Moscow’s wartime leadership has little interest — or funding — to finish the job. 
The situation at Andreyeva Bay, a former submarine maintenance yard Northwest of Murmansk near the Norwegian border, is especially worrying Throughout its career as a refueling point, the site amassed some 22,000 spent nuclear fuel assemblies from more than 100 submarines, much of which was stored in rusty containers in the open air. These shoddy conditions came horrifyingly to light in 1982, when 600,000 metric tons of radioactive water leaked from the site into the Barents Sea. 
After decades of lobbying from Bellona, cleanup at Andreyeva Bay finally began in 2017. It required international cooperation, funded by Norway and using a ship supplied by Italy. 
However, numerous damaged fuel rods still remain at the site, stored in irradiated buildings that also need to be dismantled and disposed of. Originally, this project — on which Norway alone has spent some 30 million euros ($32.6 million) — was on track to be completed by 2028. However, since the war began, Moscow has pushed that deadline back to a vague point in the 2030s, while providing little public evidence of progress. 
Other threats lurk beneath the ocean. Moscow’s most recent Arctic development plan outlined efforts to lift a host of nuclear garbage scuttled by the Soviets in the Barents and Kara Seas — including the K-27 and K-159 nuclear submarines — by 2035. These submarines pose the greatest challenge for clean-up efforts. Between them, they contain 1 million curies of radiation, or about a quarter of that released in the first month of the Fukushima disaster. 
Launched in 1962, the K-27 suffered a radiation leak in one of its experimental liquid-metal-cooled reactors after just three days at sea. Over the next several years, the Soviet Navy attempted to repair or replace the reactors. But in 1979, they gave up and decommissioned the vessel instead. 
Too radioactive to be dismantled conventionally, the K-27 was towed to the Arctic Novaya Zemlya nuclear testing range in 1982 and scuttled in one of the archipelago’s fjords. Sinking it to a measly 33 meters took some effort. The sub was weighed down by asphalt to seal its fuel-filled reactors and a hole was punched in its aft ballast tank. 
But this solution will not last forever. The sealant around the reactor was only meant to stave off radiation leaks until 2032. More troubling still is that the K-27’s highly enriched fuel could, in the right circumstances, generate an uncontrolled nuclear chain reaction leading to a significant local release of radiation. 
The other submarine, the K-159, was added to the toxic subsea catalog in 2003. But its position north of Murmansk, astride some of the Barents Sea’s most fertile fishing grounds and busiest shipping lanes, made it a source of special anxiety. Already a 305-foot-long rust bucket suffering from years of neglect, the K-159 sank to 240 meters while being towed to a Murmansk shipyard for dismantlement, killing nine sailors who were on board to bail out water in transit. 
Unlike the K-27, however, no safeguards were put in place to secure the K-159’s two reactors before it sank, meaning it went down still loaded with 800 kilograms of spent uranium fuel. A radioactive release from this wreck would be devastating not only to Norway’s fishing industry, but Russia’s as well. 
The project to lift the subs — estimated to cost north of 300 million euros ($326 million) — had been under consideration by the European Bank of Reconstruction and Development (EBRD), which along with Norway and other European nations had been in the process of developing a feasibility study for the massive, technologically demanding retrieval. But since the war began — and the EBRD shelved such considerations—there has been scant progress from Moscow’s side. 
As recently as September 2022, a cross-section of Russian officials, engineers and nuclear scientists met to hash out a way to rescue the salvage operation, but the meetings stalled on one insurmountable problem — Russia simply doesn’t have the technology to undertake the operation. It was a Dutch salvage vessel that brought the Kursk to the surface in 2001. With the war continuing to rage in Ukraine, the Netherlands is unlikely to lend its services again. 
This leaves the environment in the Russian Arctic in a state that is, at best, unpredictable. Should Moscow continue to prioritize war over the environment, it would only prolong a radiation threat that is — as two decades of progress and international goodwill have shown — solvable. What is clear, however, is that Russia cannot do it alone. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
The reasons for rising incomes in Russia have been well documented: a labor shortage, hefty payments to soldiers and their families, and an unprecedented level of state spending that has obliged defense sector factories to work around the clock. However, whether standards of living have actually improved is open to debate, given the record military spending, high inflation, Western sanctions, and limits on hydrocarbon exports. 
The data that would normally be used to attempt to reach a conclusion should be treated with caution: Russian consumer behavior has changed too radically amid the war in Ukraine, and there are huge differences across Russian society. While the full-scale invasion of Ukraine was a major shock for the middle class, it has also channeled wealth to many people who were previously struggling to make ends meet. 
The data that are available show that real incomes rose 5.8% in 2023 and at the same rate in the first quarter of 2024, according to Russia’s State Statistics Service (Rosstat). On top of that, figures from the Federal Tax Service show that the Russian state’s income tax revenues in 2023 were 40% higher than in 2021 (the lion’s share of this increase took place in 2023). 
The fifteen fastest-growing regions in terms of income tax contribution (excluding the regions Russia claims it has annexed in Ukraine) include hardly any of the traditionally big donors. Instead, the top spots are occupied by regions that before the war were traditionally net recipients from the federal budget. They include the republic of Chuvashia (a rise of 56% over two years), Bryansk region (54%), Kostroma region (52%), Kurgan region (50%), Smolensk region (49%), and Zabaikalsky region (47%). There were only three regions where income tax contribution growth was under 20%. 
It’s important to remember that using income tax payments to gauge standards of living means excluding a key source of wartime wealth, since soldiers’ wages and payouts in case of injury or death are not subject to income tax. However, given the growth in income tax payments (and that Rosstat assesses that 59% of incomes in 2023 derived from wages), it can be said with confidence that real incomes have risen faster than inflation since the full-scale invasion. 
How are Russians spending this money? The answer seems to be that they are both spending more and saving more (a trend that the head of Russia’s central bank, Elvira Nabiullina, has described as odd). According to the central bank, the amount of rubles held in Russian bank accounts climbed 19.7% to 7.4 trillion in 2023 (nearly three times what it was in 2022), buoyed by high interest rates. In particular, there has been growth in the category of deposits worth between 3 million and 10 million rubles (both in terms of their total value and in the number of people holding such deposits). In other words, a lot of people are prepared to hold sizable sums in the bank, and they appear confident that there will be no disaster in the near future. 
When it comes to consumption, the picture is extremely varied. Consumers operate within certain limits: for example, Russians aren’t going to Europe because air transport links were severed at the start of the war, and it’s hard to get a visa. It’s also difficult to buy a car: not everyone wants a Chinese-made vehicle. 
However, there are two spending trends that suggest at least some consumers have money to burn. Firstly, demand continues to grow for mortgages (the total value of mortgages held in Russia grew 34.5% in 2023). This growth has mostly been driven by state-subsidized mortgage programs. And demand showed no sign of slacking in the first four months of 2024. Many Russians have enough savings to put down a 30% deposit on a property (the average initial deposit), and are happy to take on twenty-year mortgages, suggesting they are counting on continued state support. 
The second trend is the booming gambling market. The income of legal bookmakers rose 40% in 2023, and active gamblers (those who bet at least once a week) numbered some 6.6 million people. In total, more than 15 million people gambled (about one in seven Russians over the age of 18) over the course of the year. At the same time, inflation means the size of the average bet is growing. Current trends have even led to calls to raise the legal limit on a single bet from 600,000 rubles to 1.4 million rubles. 
Among those who are winning” from the current situation are the millions of Russians in blue-collar and gray-collar jobs. Some of the most in-demand wartime professions are: milling machine operator, machinist, welder, weaver, and garment worker. While there are some regional differences, the wages of the men and women working in these professions have more than tripled and in some cases quintupled. Weavers, for instance, were paid between 18,000 and 25,000 rubles per month in December 2021 (about $250–350 back then), whereas now they can get 120,000 rubles ($1,300). 
Another good example is couriers and drivers. Long-distance truck drivers now get an average of 180,000 rubles a month (up 38% year-on-year), while couriers can earn up to 200,000 rubles a month. For comparison, President Vladimir Putin recently signed a decree raising the monthly payment to members of the Russian Academy of Sciences—the country’s leading academics and researchers—to 200,000 rubles from next year. 
From even this brief analysis, it’s clear that the main financial beneficiaries of the war in Ukraine (excluding security officials and soldiers) are those whose professions were long considered low paid and low status. Now they enjoy high salaries and a surfeit of attention from both employers struggling to fill job vacancies, and the state as a whole. 
More money in their pockets makes these people — who are not accustomed to self-reflection and who do not have easy access to independent sources of information — even more susceptible to propaganda. Putin’s public image provides them with a comforting feeling of stability, and a sense that their leaders are making the right decisions. It’s unsurprising that the level of support for the Russian regime among these groups is only growing. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Russia’s premier documentary film festival has pulled a movie about a gay MMA fighter from Chechnya from its lineup after receiving threats over it. 
"Silent Voice" tells the story of Khawaj, a promising young MMA fighter who is forced to flee his home region to Belgium after his brother finds out he’s gay and promises to kill him. 
Artdocfest’s Moscow organizers told the independent Novaya Gazeta newspaper Sunday that a man who identified himself as Suliman” asked festival management to remove the documentary from the festival program. 
People in Chechnya are dissatisfied. If the film is shown, there will be serious consequences,” the organizers quoted the man as telling them. 
Artdocfest director Vitaly Mansky said Monday that due to the circumstances” organizers have been forced” to pull the film from the Moscow festival’s lineup. 
The St. Petersburg Artdocfest, meanwhile, was forced to cancel their screening of the film after a self-styled anti-gay” activist filed a complaint with Russia’s consumer protection watchdog, alleging that the festival was promoting LGBT values” among minors and violating anti-coronavirus restrictions. 
Police closed off the St. Petersburg movie theater’s halls Sunday following the complaint from Timur Bulatov, the self-proclaimed head of the First Moral Russian Front” who is well-known for his ultraconservative, anti-LGBT activism. 
Another St. Petersburg film studio where the film was set to be screened as part of the festival had to cancel showings in order to avoid provocations and the cultural center's closure.” 
Artdocfest has come under fire and had screenings disrupted in previous years for showing documentaries on controversial topics including the war in eastern Ukraine. 
Chechnya's strongman leader Ramzan Kadyrov claims that his region is exclusively heterosexual. His iron-fisted rule has faced years of media investigations into the region's alleged imprisonment and torture of LGBT people in secret prisons. 
On Monday, film director Alexander Sokurov wrote to the director and chairman of the board of Lenfilm Studios, asking the studio to use its facilities to host the ArtDocFest. Today it is a matter of principle. A professional studio cannot refuse to support the best festival of documentary film in the country,” he wrote. 
Updated at 16:30 on April 6 to include Sokurov’s statement. 
Russian prosecutors have filed an unspecified lawsuit against the exiled former tycoon Mikhail Khodorkovsky and his one-time business partner Platon Lebedev, the Vedomosti business newspaper reported Thursday. 
Moscow’s Meshchansky District Court registered the suit against Khodorkovsky, Lebedev, and the defunct Siberian Leasing Company on May 8, the newspaper said, citing Russia’s database of court cases. Initial hearings have been scheduled for May 27. 
According to Vedomosti, the claim was filed in the others” category, which it said includes confiscations of private property by the state, suggesting the case may be part of Russia’s recent nationalization drive. 
Russia’s Prosecutor General’s Office has not yet commented on the case, and Vedomosti reported that Khodorkovsky’s spokesperson said they received no information regarding the legal suit. 
In January, a Moscow region court granted a request from the prosecutor’s office to seize Khodorkovsky’s and Lebedev’s estate in the Yablonevy Sad neighborhood, according to Vedomosti. 
The Siberian Leasing Company went bankrupt in 2019, the newspaper said, adding that a court of arbitration found the company to be under the factual control” of Khodorkovsky’s and Lebedev’s seized and then bankrupted oil company Yukos. 
Khodorkovsky and Lebedev were arrested in 2003 and jailed in two different trials in 2005 and 2010. 
Khodorkovsky, once Russia’s wealthiest man, left the country after he was pardoned by President Vladimir Putin in late 2013, while Lebedev was released in early 2014. 
Russian authorities plan to build a flexible pipeline” to pump out toxic fuel collected from the site of the largest-ever oil spill in the Arctic. 
More than 21,000 metric tons of diesel leaked into soil and rivers after a fuel tank collapsed on May 29 at a power plant near the Siberian city of Norilsk. Officials say the cleanup could take years to complete and that the spill is unprecedented for the region. 
We’re faced with the task of relocating the collected fuel to disposal sites. Our solution here is slightly different than previously assumed,” Emergency Situations Minister Yevgeny Zinichev said Friday. 
Most likely, a flexible pipeline will be built which will be extended to disposal sites,” Zinichev told President Vladimir Putin via videoconference. 
He said around 32,000 cubic meters (32 metric tons) of fuel-polluted water and over 25,000 cubic meters (25 metric tons) of oil were collected, as well as 103,000 metric tons of soil. The materials were placed in 103 sealed tanks. 
Russia’s Marine Rescue Service said Wednesday that 700 workers have finished clearing diesel from the surface of the River Ambarnaya, the most-polluted waterway from the disaster. 
Work was continuing to clean smaller waterways, including with the use of sorbents, a material used to soak up fuel along the river banks and remove oil residue from surfaces. 
Officials have said that the cleanup had stopped the fuel from spreading further north, where it risked entering the Arctic Ocean. 
The accident took place at a power plant owned by a subsidiary of metals giant Norilsk Nickel, which has said the collapse may have been caused by melting permafrost due to climate change. 
Greenpeace Russia says it is the first such large-scale spill in the region beyond the Arctic Circle. 
The NGO estimates the amount of damages to the Arctic waterways at 100 billion rubles ($1.4 billion). 
Authorities in western Russia’s Belgorod region announced Tuesday that they will evacuate 9,000 children to other regions in the country amid an increasing number of attacks from Ukraine. 
Belgorod region Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said 16 civilians were killed and 98 others injured in cross-border shelling over the past week, during which Russians went to the polls for the March 15-17 presidential election. 
We’re planning to move out about 9,000 children from Belgorod [city and three neighboring districts],” Gladkov said at an event for the ruling United Russia party, according to the state news agency TASS. 
He said the first group of 1,200 children will be evacuated on March 22 to the central regions of Penza, Tambov and Kaluga. 
Russia’s Interior Ministry said in January that it had helped evacuate some 2,800 children from the Belgorod region. 
President Vladimir Putin said in his election victory speech on Sunday that he was considering building a buffer zone” inside Ukraine’s Kharkiv region, which borders the Belgorod region, to prevent further cross-border attacks. 
Ukraine’s presidential aide Mykhailo Podolyak slammed the comments as a sign that Putin was seeking to escalate the war. 
The country's nuclear energy company will over the next eight years lift two submarines and four reactor compartments from the bottom of the Barents and Kara Seas. 
Russia's state nuclear agency plans to remove several nuclear objects from the depths of Russia's Arctic waters in an effort to reduce environmental hazards, Rosatom said this week as it presented a clean-up plan for the region. 
From the late 1960s to the late 1980s, about 18,000 radioactive objects were dumped into Russia's remote northern waters. Most of them present little environmental risk. But some are increasingly seen as a hazard to Arctic ecosystems. 
"Rosatom over the next eight years intends to lift from the bottom of Russia's Arctic waters six objects that are most dangerous in terms of radioactive pollution," the company's spokesperson told the state-run TASS news agency. 
The company plans to lift the reactors from the K-11, K-19 and K-140 submarines as well as spent nuclear fuel from the reactor that served the Lenin icebreaker. 
In addition, two entire submarines will be lifted: the K-27 from the Kara Sea and K-159 from the Barents Sea. While the former was deliberately dumped by Soviet authorities in 1982, the latter sank during a towing operation in 2003. 
The K-27 is located in 33-meter depths east of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago. It has been described by experts as a potential radioactive "time bomb." The K-159 is located in 200-meter depths off the coast of the Kola Peninsula. 
These six objects represent more than 90% of radioactive sources dumped at sea, Rosatom said. 
The remaining dumped objects are considered to be of little danger. 
"According to studies, about 95% of the 18,000 dumped objects have naturally become safe; they have been covered by mud and the level of gamma rays in their surroundings is in line with natural levels," Rosatom's representative told TASS. 
Lifting the six hazardous nuclear objects will not only be technically difficult, but also very expensive. 
A recent report made for Rosatom and the European Commission estimated the costs of lifting these six objects at 278 million euros. That includes the cost of bringing them safely to a yard for decommissioning and long-term storage. 
Lifting the K-159 alone is estimated to cost 57.5 million euros. Lifting the K-27 and transporting it to a shipyard for decommissioning and long-term storage in Saida Bay will carry a price tag of 47.7 million euros, the report said. 
It's unlikely that Russia’s increasingly cash-strapped treasury will have the 278 million euros needed for the cleanup. 
Several countries have previously allocated billions to assist Russia's post-Soviet efforts to cope with nuclear waste. 
Norway has since the mid-90s granted about 1.5 billion kroner (140 million euros) to nuclear safety projects in the Russian part of the Barents region. 
Russia is reopening the first of several regional airports that were closed when the country invaded Ukraine more than two years ago, state civil aviation agency Rosaviatsia announced Friday. 
All flights to and from 11 airports in southern and central parts of the country have been grounded over safety concerns since President Vladimir Putin ordered troops into Ukraine in February 2022. 
Elista Airport in the republic of Kalmykia near the Caspian Sea will reopen next Friday, May 3, following safety inspections by the Defense Ministry and Rosaviatsia, the aviation agency said in a statement. 
A safe and comfortable environment has been created at Elista Airport as a result of the works carried out,” it said. 
Elista Airport lies 380 kilometers east of the border with Ukraine, which has ramped up drone strikes on Russian regions along its borders and further into Russian territory. 
The republic of Kalmykia is not known to have been targeted by the drone strikes, which Kyiv does not officially confirm or deny. 
Pashkovsky Airport in the southern Krasnodar region received its first test flight last December since closing down over the invasion. But plans to reopen it have since been scuttled for unexplained reasons. 
Russia has signed a bilateral agreement to send military specialists” to the Republic of Congo to advise their counterparts and repair Soviet equipment in a move that further increases Moscow’s footprint on the continent. 
The Republic of Congo is the latest sub-Saharan African nation where Russia has stepped up its presence recently. Since Western nations sanctioned Russia for annexing Crimea in 2014, Moscow has signed at least 20 military cooperation deals in sub-Saharan Africa, including with Ethiopia, Nigeria and Zimbabwe. 
This is a new contract but, as a whole, continues the very beautiful story that was once started called military-technical cooperation,” Russia’s Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin was quoted by Interfax as saying. 
The Russian advisers will help the Republic of Congo’s military with the upkeep of armored vehicles, rocket artillery and helicopters, Fomin said. 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov told reporters that Russian specialists are already on the ground there, Interfax reported. 
Ukraine and Russia on Thursday said they swapped 100 prisoners of war each, the latest exchange between the warring sides since Moscow accused Kyiv of downing a plane carrying captured Ukrainian soldiers. 
Moscow and Kyiv have both vowed to keep exchanging prisoners as Russia's war against Ukraine drags quickly approaches its second anniversary. 
"Another 100 Ukrainians are at home in Ukraine," Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on social media. 
"All of them are ours, all of them are back on their native land," he added. 
Zelensky posted photographs of men wrapped in Ukrainian flags. 
Zelensky said most of the men had defended the port city of Mariupol, which Russia captured after a brutal seige in early 2022. 
"We are working on each and every one of them and will not stop until we bring them back!" Zelensky said. 
The swap, announced earlier by Russia, comes after Zelensky sacked his top general Valery Zaluzhny, replacing him with Oleksandr Syrsky. 
"On February 8, as a result of negotiations, 100 Russian servicemen who were in mortal danger in captivity were returned from territory controlled by the Kyiv regime," Russia's Defense Ministry said in a statement. 
It said its men would be brought to Moscow for rehabilitation. 
Moscow and Kyiv have traded 150 prisoners of war with the help of mediators from the United Arab Emirates (UAE), Russia’s Defense Ministry announced Friday, the first such exchange after months of stalled talks between the two warring sides. 
As a result of negotiations, 75 Russian servicemen, who were in mortal danger in captivity, were returned from the territory controlled by the Kiyv regime,” the Defense Ministry said, adding that 75 Ukrainian soldiers were also sent home. 
The United Arab Emirates provided humanitarian mediation during the return of Russian servicemen from captivity,” it said. 
The announcement came two days after Russia’s human rights commissioner accused the Ukrainian authorities of blocking efforts to secure the further release of imprisoned soldiers. 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky later confirmed Friday’s exchange in a social media post, saying that today we have an important result — 75 more of our people have returned to Ukraine.” 
He shared photos of the returning soldiers draped in Ukrainian flags and being greeted by relatives. 
UAE authorities brokered several swaps of Ukrainian and Russian prisoners of war earlier this year. 
Ukraine and Russia said late Wednesday they had exchanged over two hundred captive soldiers each in what Kyiv has described as the biggest prisoner swap of the war so far. 
The two warring sides have carried out dozens of exchanges since Moscow launched its February 2022 invasion, but the swaps have become less frequent and the last took place in August. 
Both Russia and Ukraine announced they had received over 200 soldiers each following talks mediated by the United Arab Emirates. 
"More than 200 of our soldiers and civilians have been returned from Russian captivity," Zelensky said on the messaging app Telegram, posting a video of uniformed men celebrating. 
Neither side had announced an exchange in almost five months, prompting Kyiv to accuse Moscow of deliberately blocking deals for political reasons. 
"There was a long pause in the exchanges, but there was no pause in the negotiations," Zelensky later said in a message, hailing the swap as "good news". 
Russia's Defense Ministry said 248 of its servicemen had been returned and that they were being provided with "medical and psychological assistance." 
The UAE said the deal reflected its "strong friendly relations" with both Russia and Ukraine. 
Neither side discloses how many prisoners are in their custody. 
Unsettling climate forecasts, human neglect, lack of resources and zombie” fires risk turning Russia’s annual wildfire season into a crisis. 
Most of Russia is set to experience prolonged periods of "high" and "extreme" wildfire danger this year, the state Hydrometeorological Center has forecast based on climate and weather data. 
However, limited state capacity for fire prevention and control, along with ongoing practices such as dry grass burning, risk turning the annual peak wildfire season into a crisis, experts and firefighters told The Moscow Times. 
The overall forecast for the upcoming season is rather alarming,” Grigory Kuksin, an expert at the Landscape Fire Prevention Center NGO, told The Moscow Times. 
It's unlikely that there will be fewer fires than last year, and it's doubtful that they will be managed better," Kuksin said. 
Russia's wildfire season, which officially began in early March in eight regions, has already seen significant activity. 
Six wildfires were reported in the Far East's Primorye region, including in the Land of the Leopard National Park. By mid-March, the Zabaikalsky region had reported 25 wildfires. 
Wildfire risk increases as the country transitions out of winter, beginning in the southern regions in March. These risks are expected to reach the northern regions of Murmansk and Arkhangelsk by May and to cover almost the entire country by June, state forecast maps issued last month indicate. 
Colors on the maps represent the number of days a region is projected to experience "high" and "extreme" fire danger during a particular month: blue — less than one day, yellow — 1-3 days, pink — 4-6 days, red — 7-9 days, dark red — over 10 days. 
Though Kuksin said the 2024 state weather center’s forecast is quite typical,” he warned that traditional land use practices and the habits of ordinary Russians would also influence the actual spread of fires. 
For example, the burning of reed thickets and agricultural residues often leads to wildfires, even in subzero temperatures. Such incidents are expected in the Astrakhan, Volgograd and Rostov regions in March, despite these areas not being highlighted on the forecast map. 
By May, as warm weather arrives in most regions and many Russians travel to the countryside and have barbecues during public holidays, the fire risk normally rises. The risks escalate further due to the habit of burning dry grass — a long-standing practice outlawed in 2015 but still in wide use. 
Even in the summer, when some fires are caused by storms — which are becoming more frequent in a changing climate — nine out of 10 fires are still caused by human activity,” Kuksin said. 
He said he anticipates a particularly high number of fires in areas where fire is commonly used, such as logging areas and northern regions where pastures are burned. 
Furthermore, a decline in groundwater levels across many Russian regions has Kuksin bracing for a "very challenging season," mirroring the difficulties of previous years. 
Yet for those on the frontlines of fighting these fires, the battle feels neverending. 
Zombie fires 
For volunteer firefighter Anastasia from Yekaterinburg, the capital of the Ural Mountains region of Sverdlovsk, winter is a crucial time for addressing the smoldering threat of peat fires before they become a larger hazard. 
These peat fires, often referred to as zombie fires,” smolder beneath the snow from the previous year's wildfires and can quickly spread with the arrival of warm, dry conditions. 
"At our place, the season lasts all year due to wintering peat fires," said Anastasia, who became a volunteer after devastating wildfires hit the Sverdlovsk region in 2021, opening her eyes to the threats faced by nearby green areas. 
Anastasia is now part of a vast network of volunteer firefighters who aid the efforts of the chronically underfunded and understaffed government fire services. 
Her name has been changed due to potential repercussions from speaking to foreign media. 
In 2023 alone, her volunteer group was called out to the fields 53 times, she told The Moscow Times. 
This winter, Anastasia and her group teamed up with workers from a state agency to extinguish a huge and very problematic” peat fire in a settlement two hours away from Yekaterinburg. 
According to Kuksin, zombie fires, once seen as an exotic phenomenon, have become a common challenge in Russia. This has prompted firefighters to brace for new and dangerous types of fires as climate change progresses. 
In February, Sverdlovsk regional authorities said that they discovered 50 hotspots of smoldering peat, which could flare up with the onset of warmer weather. Governor Yevgeny Kuyvashev tasked officials with extinguishing all peat fires before the start of the wildfire season. 
Despite the deployment of an effective technique for suppressing peat fires during the winter — a more cost-effective strategy than combatting large blazes later on — Anastasia said that some of the region's zombie fires may remain unextinguished. 
Shifting the blame 
Regional officials boast that their firefighting capabilities, in terms of fire trucks and equipment, exceed federally mandated norms by 114% and 145%, respectively. 
Yet Anastasia said there are significant shortages in the human and financial resources needed for effective fire prevention. 
With over 90% of Russia’s wildfires caused by human activity, Anastasia said she believes that regional authorities should ramp up public awareness efforts, as some citizens often pass the buck for wildfires to external actors. 
Somewhere in public transport, there is a scrolling message: ‘Don't burn.’ In some settlements, it’s broadcast on the radio ... But that's not enough,” Anastasia said. 
When everything starts burning, there are still people who say that it’s some Ukrainian saboteurs who came and started the fire. And they don't realize that it was themselves who threw a cigarette butt, and that's what caused the field and the forest to burn.” 
This situation is exacerbated by last year’s unprecedented drought in the Sverdlovsk region, raising concerns about what the 2024 season could bring once in full swing. 
Unfortunately, we also have bodies of water disappearing completely: lakes are drying up, rivers are turning into mere streams,” Anastasia said. 
And this problem is becoming more and more relevant for all those marshy areas that have always withstood this human load associated with bonfires and [unextinguished] cigarettes. … Now any flame in the forest turns into a wildfire.” 
Gearing up 
As Russia braces for another potentially difficult wildfire season, officials are rushing to highlight their readiness efforts. 
The regions have already put in place about 1,100 forest fire stations, 170 aviation units, 860 observation towers and over 480 aircraft, Russia’s Forestry Agency said. 
"Winter has officially ended, and the first forest fires are being recorded. ... Most of them are … arising from a failure to comply with fire safety rules. Regional heads should closely monitor the situation," Alexei Venglinsky, the deputy head of Russia’s Forestry Agency, said in early March. 
Kuksin said that recent legislative changes should enable quicker responses to wildfires, including the mobilization of additional forces and mandatory response to hotspots previously allowed to be ignored. 
At the same time, the lack of significant funding increases for forest protection means that state firefighters must tackle larger-scale fires without adequate financial support, he said. 
Low salaries also contribute to staffing shortages in many regions. 
Yet overall, there appears to be no fundamental breakthrough either for the better or for the worse in Russia's organization of its firefighting force, the expert said. 
Despite the troubling outlook for this year’s wildfire season, Kuksin said there are still ways to mitigate the damage. 
We need to burn less dry grass and tell people about the causes of fires and what each of us can do. We need to help detect and extinguish fires in time and to assist firefighters and volunteers,” he said. 
Russia has revealed a new drone prototype capable of tracking, intercepting and disarming enemy drones, the state-run TASS news agency reported Wednesday. 
Unlike existing Russian means of countering enemy unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), these killer drones” will scramble their enemies’ networks to disable them, TASS quoted Viktor Kladov, director of international cooperation and regional policy at state industrial conglomerate Rostec, as saying. 
Such systems are capable of detecting drones of different sizes, identifying them, overtaking control and effectively disabling them,” Rostec CEO Sergei Chemezov was quoted as saying by the Invest Foresight business magazine. 
The weaponry, displayed by the Rosoboronexport state arms exporter at the 2019 Dubai Airshow, will be used to combat terrorist activity, Rosoboronexport CEO Alexander Mikheyev said. 
Miniature UAVs, thanks to their low cost and ease of use, are increasingly used by terrorist organizations and criminal groups, Mikheyev was quoted as saying. 
Russia will ramp up strikes on Western weapons delivered to Ukraine, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said Tuesday following the U.S. Congress' long-delayed approval of fresh military aid to Kyiv. 
We shall increase the intensity of strikes against logistics centers and storage facilities of the Western armament,” Shoigu told the ministry’s advisory board. 
Russian servicemen [have] defused the myth of the Western weapons’ superiority,” Shoigu said, adding that Russia would continue producing the most in-demand weapons and military hardware in proportion to the threats posed by the United States and its allies.” 
His comments came after the U.S. House of Representatives unblocked a $61-billion military aid package for Kyiv on Saturday following six months of political wrangling. 
Shoigu described Washington’s aid as an effort by the U.S. defense industry to profit off of Russia’s war in Ukraine and accused Washington of using Ukrainians to die for its interests.” 
In the more than two years since Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, Shoigu claimed that Ukraine has lost almost half a million” troops. 
Russia has not disclosed its wartime casualties since September 2022. Independent Russian media has been able to identify more than 50,000 Russian soldiers who were killed in Ukraine, but the real figure is believed to be much higher. 
What’s a tea party without a samovar! The samovar — chubby, steamy, shiny and imposing — has been the center of every holiday table and an indispensable part of Russian feasts. And the samovar has been a good friend to all regardless of class, honored equally by the poor man and the tsar. 
Russia has developed its own tea drinking rituals over the years. For a long time tea was an urban drink, and Moscow set the tone. 
Here the early 20th-century writer Alexander Vyurkov beautifully described tea drinking in the capital city: Muscovites drank tea in the morning, at noon and always at four o'clock. At four in the afternoon samovars were boiling in every house. Tea rooms and inns were full, and life stopped for a while.... If the coals in the samovar crackled and ‘sang songs,’ the superstitious Muscovite rejoiced: This was a good sign. But if the samovar suddenly began to whistle as the coal embers were dying down, the Muscovite grabbed the lid, put it on the samovar and then began to shake it. He might have silenced the whistling, but for a long time the Muscovite would anxiously expect trouble. The worst omen, however, was if the samovar sprung a leak. Trouble would surely follow. 
Above: The Museum of Russian National Drinks (Gavrilov Posad, Ivanovo region) has an enormous collection of samovars. This and other photos of samovars were taken there. 
It was customary for merchants and the lower middle class to keep water boiling in the samovar all day long. Among the merchants tea drinking had to be done in style. They would spend long hours at the tea table, drinking up to 20 cups. A separate table with all sorts of appetizers was laid for tea. Before tea people ate salty food, such as caviar and pickled fish, and then drank several samovars dry while eating all sorts of nibbles,” that is, cookies and sweets. 
A proper Russian tea party had four changes of appetizers. Merchants and the lower middle class liked to drink tea with round bread sticks and rolls, taking a bite of sugar placed on the saucer, and always with their little finger sticking out — which was considered very vulgar among the nobility. 
Above: A working model of a steam-engine samovar. If you don't pour tea for a long time, it rolls over to you on its own. 
The custom of spicing tea with Madeira or rum was contrary to strict traditions. But the Old Notebook” by Prince Pyotr Vyazemsky included a story in the section Notes on food and dining, as well as on the subject of drinking. Once when a host was pouring rum into a cup of tea, his hand quavered for a moment and he poured in too much and exclaimed, ‘Ach!’Then he asked his guest if he should pour him some rum, too, but this time he poured very carefully and rather reluctantly. ‘No,’ said the guest, ‘I’ll have some of the Ach! that you have’.” 
Since the middle of the 19th century, drinking tea from a samovar has been a national tradition in Russia. Despite the very high cost (a samovar was not cheap — it cost about as much as a cow), it was welcomed into working-class and peasant families and became an indispensable attribute of every Russian home. It was used not only at home, but even taken on trips and to parties. For this manufacturers made "traveling" samovars that were easy to transport: the polyhedral, cubic or sometimes cylindrical samovars had removable legs and handles that could be easily attached upon arrival. 
Above: Vase” samovars from the Vorontsov factory in Tula (late 19th century) and an earlier model from the mid-19th century. 
Properly run homes had two samovars: one for everyday use and one for holidays and guests. People would spend a long time carefully choosing the right samovar since they would use it for many years. To encourage people to buy better and higher quality samovars, manufacturers stamped their wares with their own trademark as well as images of medals received at exhibitions, often international. For example, Batashevsky (Batashev Brothers) samovars were stamped with medals from four world exhibitions: Paris, London, Chicago and Nizhny Novgorod. Sometimes other manufacturers’ trademarks and stamps were counterfeited, but they were quickly exposed. The fake samovars were destroyed and the ashamed manufacturers were fined. 
Above: The samovar on the left was made in Tula (1850-90). In the center is a small samovar called tête-à-tête made by the craftsman V. Chekov (the last third of the 19th century). And on the right is a samovar called Bochonok (little barrel”) made in the Batashev Brothers factory in Tula (1871-85). 
Samovars in Russia were first made in the Urals. Although Tula is considered to be the birthplace of samovars, facts show that the town of Suksun in the Urals Mountains was the real place of birth. Documents from 1740 had the first mention of a samovar, a 16-pound, copper-tinned samovar made at the Suksun factory. Historians found the first mention of Tula samovars only in 1746. 
Samovars are a pleasure for homes, restaurants and taverns. Judging by the size, it is easy to guess that the samovars pictured below were tavern samovars. The type on the left is called a smooth jar” (Tula, 1920-40). The samovar in the middle is also from Tula, but it is older and was made by the Persian Shemarin Brothers Trading House Unlimited,” a supplier to the Shah's Court (1906-17). On the right is a Soviet tavern samovar with tray (1920-40). 
And finally, below is a joke samovar for very impatient tavern customers. 
A samovar was an expensive purchase. Ordinary peasants wanted something beautiful in their homes, but sometimes they didn't know what to do with it. Dmitry Rostislavov (1809-1877), a Russian writer, professor and inspector of the St. Petersburg Theological Academy, left fascinating descriptions and notes dating back to the 1820s. 
A peasant woman,” he wrote, either on her own or after consulting with her husband put loose tea right into a cast iron or metal pot with boiling water, but when she saw that the water was still clear, she decided to add buckwheat groats, onions and other seasonings." 
We’ll stay traditional. And serve cherry galette for tea. 
3 Tbsp breadcrumbs or cornflake crumbs 
Cut the butter into 1-cm (1/2 inch) pieces and knead into the flour mixture with your hands. 
Add the egg and mix. 
Pour in cold water one tablespoon at a time and knead the dough with your hands. The dough should not be crumbly, but not stick to the surface. You will need 2 to 4 tablespoons of water. 
Put the dough in the refrigerator for 25-30 minutes. 
Mix the cherries with the honey, sugar and starch. 
Roll out the dough into a circle 5-6 mm (about ¼ inch) thick. 
Sprinkle breadcrumbs in the middle of the circle, 8 cm (3 inches) from the edge, and spread evenly. 
Put the cherries in a dense layer on the breadcrumbs. 
Fold the edge of the pastry over the filling, pressing it evenly. 
Bake in a preheated oven for 30-40 minutes. 
There is no point telling you how long this galette will keep. By the time your children ask if there is any left, it will be long gone. 
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz on Tuesday called on Russian President Vladimir Putin to pull out his troops from Ukraine, as a counteroffensive by Kyiv's forces made swift progress. 
Scholz in a 90-minute telephone call "urged" Putin to "come to a diplomatic solution as quickly as possible, based on a ceasefire, a complete withdrawal of Russian forces and respect for the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Ukraine," according to the chancellor's spokesman Steffen Hebestreit. 
The chancellor also encouraged his Russian counterpart to stick to a deal allowing grain exports from Ukraine that Russia has repeatedly criticized. 
Scholz told Putin "not to discredit and continue to fully implement" the grain deal in light of the stretched global food supply. 
During the call, the German chancellor raised the question of security at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Europe's largest, which has been a focal point of fighting in recent weeks. 
The German leader asked Putin to "avoid any escalation and implement in full the measures recommended by the International Atomic Energy Agency." 
The IAEA has called for a security zone to be set up around after a mission to the plant earlier this month. 
A senior procurement officer in Russia’s Defense Ministry has been charged with abuse of power, Russian law enforcement authorities announced late Thursday. 
Investigators accuse Vladimir Verteletsky of taking a bribe in relation to work that was not carried out” under a government contract in 2022, according to Russia’s Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes. 
The law enforcement body said the sign-off had cost the state over 70 million rubles” ($773,500) and added that Verteletsky was placed in pre-trial detention. 
The senior procurement official’s arrest comes just hours after Russian investigators announced the detention of Lieutenant-General Vadim Shamarin on bribery charges as part of an apparent purge within the Russian military. 
Verteletsky is the fourth senior-ranking military officer to have been arrested since the detention of ex-Deputy Defense Minister Timur Ivanov on April 23. 
The Kremlin on Thursday denied that it had launched a sweeping anti-corruption campaign against military officials. 
MOSCOW – "I plan to do interviews, reports and avoid going to jail." 
With these words, actress Antonina Favorskaya landed her first job in Russian media in 2022. 
She soon became a court photographer. Driven by her activism, she took photos of Russian political prisoners in court for the independent SOTAvision news outlet. 
Two years later, Favorskaya herself would be the one being photographed in court after she was arrested on extremism charges that she and her colleagues consider to be revenge for her journalism and political views. 
If convicted, she faces up to six years in prison. 
Favorskaya, 34, entered journalism amid Russia's wartime crackdown on free media which has forced nearly all independent journalism into exile and outlawed independent reporting on the war in Ukraine. 
The risks didn’t appear to stop her. 
"Her soul truly ached," said SOTAvision editor Vyacheslav Tikhonov, who met Favorskaya during the trial of opposition politician Ilya Yashin in 2022. 
"She was seeking like-minded people. It was her initiative to bear the burden of attending every major trial to capture photos,” Tikhonov, who led Favorskaya into the profession, told The Moscow Times. 
Described as irrepressible” by her colleagues at SOTAvision, Favorskaya regularly covered late Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny’s court sessions. She recorded his last court hearing a day before his Feb. 16 death in an Arctic prison and took near-daily photos of his grave in Moscow. 
In a 2023 interview, Favorskaya, who worked as a theater and film actress until 2022, said she became interested in politics while studying journalism at university. 
She has also photographed imprisoned opposition figures such as Vladimir Kara-Murza and Lilia Chanysheva, artist Alexandra Skochilenko, and many others considered by human rights defenders to be political prisoners. 
"I once asked her to send her favorite shots from court hearings, and she sent me all the photos of political prisoners smiling as if she was seeking some kind of support and strength in them," he added. 
Favorskaya, also identified by court officials as Antonina Kravtsova, was detained on March 17 while she was sitting with other journalists at a cafe near the cemetery where Navalny is buried. The next day, she was arrested for allegedly disobeying the police. 
After 10 days behind bars, Favorskaya was arrested again in a closed Moscow court hearing — this time for two months on charges related to the extremism” case against Navalny and his Anti-Corruption Foundation (FBK). 
Authorities accused her of collecting material, preparing and editing videos for FBK,” which Russia banned as an extremist” organization in 2021. 
Navalny’s team denied that Favorskaya had published anything” for FBK, saying that a journalist is accused of being a journalist.” 
Favorskaya said in court that she believed her arrest was linked to an article of hers that said Navalny had been tortured by prison authorities. 
This is due to the persecution of me as a person who has written about Alexei Navalny for several years, and who continues to write and speak about him, sharing the same beliefs, judgments and ideas as Alexei Navalny. Therefore, the persecution has a political angle,” Favorskaya said. 
SOTAvision has appealed to the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights over Favorskaya’s arrest, saying that the Russian authorities have finalized a formula wherein not only opposition politicians are branded as criminals and ‘extremists,’ but also the lawyers who defend them, and ultimately the journalists who cover their struggle.” 
SOTAvision founder Alexandra Ageeva told The Moscow Times that despite the intensified pressure on journalists since the start of the war, the "extremism" charges against Favorskaya were still unexpected. 
She is accused of collecting material, video and photographic material from Navalny’s trials — this is exactly what she is supposed to do as a journalist,” Ageeva said. This is a case of persecution of a journalist for her journalistic activities.” 
According to a report by the Council of Europe Platform for the Safety of Journalists, at least 27 journalists are currently imprisoned in Russia. Authorities have also blocked more than 130 media outlets over the past two years. 
These repressions against journalists should be seen as part of the chaotic picture” of the state’s pressure on the opposition, said Andrei Kolesnikov, a senior fellow at the Carnegie Russia Eurasia Center. 
The focus of the persecution here is less on journalism and more on Navalny,” Kolesnikov told The Moscow Times. 
There is a race among law enforcement agencies to [carry out] repressions, just like there is a race among lawmakers in [carrying out] repressive initiatives,” Kolesnikov said. 
At least five other Russian journalists were detained or arrested last month in addition to Favorskaya. 
Alexandra Astakhova and Anastasia Musatova were briefly detained while waiting at the detention center for Favorskaya, who was expected to be released after her first arrest. 
SOTAvision reporter Yekaterina Anikievich and RusNews correspondent Konstantin Yarov were detained while reporting on the police search of Favorskaya's Moscow apartment. 
In Ufa, the capital of the republic Bashkortostan, RusNews journalist Olga Komleva, 45, was arrested on extremism” charges. Komleva had volunteered at Navalny’s Ufa headquarters before Russia banned his organizations. 
Both Favorskaya and Komleva have been designated political prisoners by the veteran human rights organization Memorial. 
During her court hearings, Favorskaya can be seen smiling at reporters and making a heart shape with her hands — just like the political prisoners she used to photograph. 
I ask everyone who came to the trial: no matter what happens next, no matter what they come up with after this, do not be afraid for me,” Favorskaya said during one of her court hearings. 
A court in the Siberian republic of Buryatia has sentenced activist Natalya Filonova to nearly three years in prison on charges linked to anti-mobilization protests that swept Russia last fall, the regional news outlet Lyudi Baikala reported Thursday. 
Filonova, a 61-year-old pensioner and a veteran activist, was detained at a September 2022 rally in Buryatia’s capital Ulan-Ude against Russia’s partial” military mobilization for the war in Ukraine. 
Prosecutors argued that following her detention, Filonova attacked four officers who were transporting her to a local court in a police vehicle. 
Police officers Andrei Laptev, Artur Symbelov, Sergei Romanov and Ayur Danzanov maintained that the pensioner beat and scratched them, breaking one officer’s finger and stabbing another one’s face with a pen. 
Instruments of the crime that were confiscated from me during the search were a notebook and a pen! You will not believe it, but, according to the investigation, it was with these objects that I tried to dispose of the valiant Buryatian police,” Filonova said in an interview with the independent newspaper Novaya Gazeta earlier this month. 
Filonova was found guilty of attacking law enforcement and will serve her two-year, 10-month sentence in a corrective labor colony. 
Prosecutors had requested a three-year sentence for the activist. 
Filonova is the adoptive mother of a 16-year-old son with a disability. 
Following Filonova’s arrest, her son moved in with the activist’s relatives. Soon after, foster care services forcefully transferred him to a hospital and then to an orphanage, where he still remains. 
"The boy was safe with the relatives. This, of course, is an attempt to put pressure on the activist,” Buryatian human rights defender Nadezhda Nizovkina told regional RFE/RL affiliate Sibir.Realii last December. 
Russia’s Memorial human rights organization recognized Filonova as a political prisoner in March 2023. 
Smoke from wildfires burning across Russia’s largest and coldest region has reached the North Pole for what is believed to be the first time in known history last week, according to satellite observations. 
The European Union’s Copernicus satellite monitoring service has said that the forest fires in the Siberian republic of Sakha (Yakutia) — fueled by hot weather and a 150-year record drought — have already emitted a record 505 megatons of carbon dioxide with several weeks remaining in the fire season. 
This week, wildfire smoke has traveled more than 3,000 km (1,864 mi) from Yakutia to reach the North Pole, a feat that appears to be a first in recorded history,” NASA’s Earth-monitoring tool MODIS said Saturday. 
The thick smoke had blanketed vast swathes of Siberia before reaching the North Pole, sparking evacuations, concerns over deteriorating air quality and orders to clear fire trails of dead wood and fallen trees around endangered settlements. 
Smoke has been detected in 1,300 towns and settlements in the Krasnoyarsk region west of Sakha alone, emergency officials said Saturday. 
MODIS, or Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer, said its satellite has captured only a small part” of the smoke stretching 3,200 kilometers east to west and 4,000 kilometers north to south Friday. 
Citing media reports, it said that the smoke has clouded the skies in locations as far-flung as Mongolia, western Greenland and Nunavut, Canada. 
But reaching the North Pole is continental scale by definition,” University of Maryland atmospheric scientist Santiago Gassó told Reuters. 
The EU’s Copernicus Atmosphere Monitoring Service forecast Wednesday that the Russian and North American wildfires will continue spreading across the Arctic Ocean for the next few days.” 
At least 16 citizens of Sri Lanka fighting as mercenaries have been killed in Russia's war against Ukraine, the island nation's deputy defense minister said Wednesday. 
Sri Lankan authorities opened an inquiry last week into the recruitment of its citizens in the war and have since identified 288 retired soldiers who participated in the conflict, Deputy Defense Minister Pramitha Tennakoon said. 
"We have confirmed information about 16 who have been killed," he told reporters in Colombo without saying whether those killed had been fighting on the side of Moscow or Kyiv. 
But ruling party lawmaker Gamini Waleboda told parliament on Monday that most had been recruited to fight alongside the Russian army. 
According to Waleboda, those who joined had been duped with promises of high salaries and falsely told they would be given non-combat roles, echoing similar claims made by authorities in nearby India and Nepal after a number of their citizens were killed in the conflict. 
Tennakoon said the recruitment of Sri Lankans was being treated as a human trafficking enterprise and urged military officers not to fall prey to the recruitment drive. 
The Sri Lankan government was also in talks with the Ukrainian and Russian foreign ministries to track down Sri Lankans in the two countries and bring them back safely. 
"This is a delicate issue," Tennakoon said. "We are friends with Russia, we are friends with Ukraine. Both are important for us so we are talking to the foreign ministries to get our people back safely." 
Police arrests 
Complaints began pouring in from relatives after the Sri Lankan Defense Ministry opened its probe last week to collect information on those who had traveled to both countries to join the war effort. 
Sri Lanka has repeatedly warned its citizens against traveling to Russia or Ukraine to join the fighting. 
But there are no restrictions on Sri Lankans traveling abroad and large numbers of citizens have left in the wake of an unprecedented economic crisis in mid-2022. 
Police arrested two retired army officers, including a major general, last week for illegally acting as recruiting agents for Russian mercenary companies. 
India and Nepal have also confirmed that numerous citizens of those countries had been recruited to fight alongside the Russian army over the past year. 
At least 19 Nepalis had been killed in combat, according to figures from the Himalayan republic released in March. 
Sri Lanka's Foreign Ministry said Thursday it is seeking the release of hundreds of its ex-soldiers fighting for Russia, as well as around a dozen prisoners of war in Ukraine. 
The Sri Lankan government opened an investigation earlier this month into the illegal recruitment of its citizens for the war, identifying 455 former soldiers who had gone to fight on the side of Russia. 
Colombo will send a delegation to Russia in June to negotiate the release of the men, including 37 wounded Sri Lankans, Foreign Minister Tharaka Balasuriya told reporters. 
President Ranil Wickremesinghe is also due to speak with his Ukrainian counterpart about the release of "10 to 12" Sri Lankan prisoners of war, Balasuriya added. 
At least 16 citizens of Sri Lanka fighting as mercenaries have been killed in Russia's war against Ukraine, authorities in the island nation said earlier this month. 
"We want to stop Sri Lankans going to Russia and Ukraine," Balasuriya said Thursday alongside the Russian ambassador to Colombo. The foreign minister added that many had been duped into believing they would receive high salaries, land and the right to settle in Russia. 
Sri Lankan police have arrested two retired generals for illegally acting as recruiting agents for Russian mercenary firms. 
Russian ambassador Levan Dzhagaryan, speaking alongside Balasuriya, said Moscow was investigating the issue but declined to give details. 
"Why you are talking only about Russia?" he asked reporters. "Why don't you talk about Ukraine?" 
Asked how many visas had been granted to Sri Lankans in recent months, Dzhagaryan said it "was a lot." 
India and Nepal have also said that a number of their citizens were recruited over the past year to fight alongside the Russian army, with multiple confirmed deaths. 
"If Sri Lankans are under threat and are in a dangerous situation, the duty of the government... is to ensure that they are safely returned back," Balasuriya said. 
Mass protests in Georgia following the government’s reintroduction of a Russia-style foreign influence” bill are making global headlines. 
A similar bill introduced last year had proposed requiring organizations to register as foreign agents,” echoing Russian legislation that has forced the closure of independent news outlets and civil society groups. The new bill’s language has been changed to target entities working as agents of foreign influence” rather than those acting as foreign agents.” 
Like many others working in Georgia’s civil society sector, I believe this change is mere propaganda by the ruling Georgian Dream party, which seeks to hide the fact that its bill is ultimately inspired by repressive laws in Russia. 
That said, observers often narrowly focus on the draft bill while overlooking the internal dynamics of Georgia’s political landscape. Key to understanding the current political crisis is the fact that Georgia stands at a crossroads. It risks slipping deeper into authoritarianism and away from the Western institutions to which Georgian people have long sought to belong. This troubling dynamic is part of a pattern seen throughout Russia and Eurasia. 
Russia’s 2008 war of aggression against Georgia made it difficult to imagine that a popularly elected Georgian government would one day openly emulate the Kremlin, let alone be commended by it. This rapprochement has been long in the making, not hidden from the public eye but kept at a comfortable distance for those who preferred not to notice. 
Georgian Dream was built on deception from the outset. Illiberal political regimes like this are run on public tolerance of obvious lies. Georgia in 2012 was no exception. That year, Georgian Dream made an electoral breakthrough, gaining control of the country’s politics. Its founder and chair, oligarch Bidzina Ivanishvili, meanwhile, consolidated power around himself. The party was his means to capture Georgia and impose his personal rule. 
For many Georgians, it was convenient to pretend to believe the lie Ivanishvili’s success was built on. They were told they could have their cake and eat it, living in peace and prosperity provided they did not irritate” the Kremlin, even as Russia resurrected its imperialist ambitions. This approach, effectively pushing for a secret rapprochement with Russia, became the defining feature of Ivanishvili’s prime ministership. 
Georgian Dream promised they could advance Georgia’s interests by neutralizing disagreements between the West and Russia over the country. Soon, it looked like they delivered. Everyone involved, including in the West, was relieved and embraced this outcome. Western approval of what was presented as a balancing act between great powers only made the lie at the heart of Georgian Dream appear more credible: that if Russia were not antagonized, it would not obstruct Georgia’s widely held ambition to become closer to the European Union. 
The political landscape in and around Georgia underwent a significant shift after Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022. The pretense that Georgia could balance between the two great powers on its doorstep — Russia and the West — was no longer sustainable. 
At the same time, Georgia’s chances of European integration have gone from remote to realistic, placing Ivanishvili’s regime under intense pressure. Within the framework of a plebiscitary democracy, he was compelled, including through public protests, to take steps toward European integration. Simultaneously, the EU demanded that Tbilisi enact swift constitutional and political reforms to meet the bloc’s benchmarks. 
One of the EU’s main requirements for Georgia was de-oligarchization” – freeing public power and social institutions from the grip of men like Ivanishvili. The European Commission also ordered that Ivanishvili’s clientelist network of judicial clansmen” undergo extraordinary integrity checks” by foreign experts.” Ivanishvili’s men and pro-government propagandists seized on this proposed vetting as an affront to Georgia’s sovereignty and swore the regime would resist it at all costs. 
In a manifesto published April 29, Ivanishvili said this requirement was an effort by the collective West, whom he called the global party of war,” to instigate a revolution.” In the face of these dual challenges, Ivanishvili made the predictable choice to eliminate any sources of pressure, thereby consolidating his power against rising demands for change and prolonging his rule indefinitely. 
Only a full appreciation of Ivanishvili’s intention to preserve his rule indefinitely can untangle the apparent paradox of why a regime recently granted EU candidate status has unleashed an avalanche of illiberal laws and constitutional amendments that threaten Georgia’s westward trajectory. 
Ivanishvili has shown clear signs of following in the Kremlin’s footsteps. Emblematic of this is the proposed constitutional amendment on the protection of family values and minors” to counter LGBTQ+ propaganda." 
The LGBTQ+ propaganda” and foreign influence” bills were instantly recognized as Russian laws” both inside and outside Georgia. They are not only textually and substantively similar to their Russian equivalents, but also aim to achieve the objectives that the Kremlin cherishes: the isolation of Georgia from the West and the creation of a closed authoritarian regime in Russia’s image. 
Russian laws have instrumental, symbolic and substantive means of accomplishing these ends. If it were to become law, the foreign influence bill would eradicate any organization the government does not like, exercising total control over civil society. It would additionally derail Georgia’s integration into the EU and solidify its isolation from EU and Western institutions. 
The first victims of this law are widely believed to be independent election monitoring organizations. Their erasure would free the regime’s hands to manipulate elections until they are nothing but a staged performance like in electoral autocracies such as Russia. It would also accomplish Georgian Dream’s declared intention to win a large enough majority to be able to change the constitution unilaterally. 
Wielding this power, Georgian Dream and Ivanishvili would finalize Georgia’s transformation into an authoritarian regime. The amendment on the protection of family values” would be the equivalent of Putin’s constitutional formalization of autocracy in 2020. This amendment would strip Georgia’s constitution of its liberal democratic characteristics. The foreign influence bill would create a framework for total social control by imposing restrictions on freedom of speech and assembly, implementing censorship and effectively persecuting people for thought crimes. 
In an April 29 speech delivered to a captive audience of bussed-in public servants and other recipients of public money, Ivanishvili revealed that the Georgian Dream was always built on lies. It has been a smokescreen of the dirty reality of his rule under the Kremlin’s protective umbrella. It paints the regime’s opponents, civil society at large, as enemies within who should be crushed decisively. 
In a predictable story of authoritarian consolidation and isolation from the West, the exact motivations of Ivanishvili’s relations with the Kremlin no longer matter. His declared objectives, evident through these bills, and the regime he seeks to build are strikingly Putinesque. 
Putin demolished the remnants of Russia’s illiberal democracy of the 1990s by enticing Russians with the obvious lie that they could live in prosperity under a benevolent personalist dictatorship. When that lie exhausted itself, the regime augmented it with an ideological cocktail drawn from Russia’s imperialist past, sparking a brutal war that could be waged only by a regime that makes a resurrected, modernized Stalinism a central component of its ideology. 
Illiberal democracies like Georgia harbor the seeds of authoritarianism, even if they are not readily visible. Russian political expert Andrei Kolesnikov says these regimes are susceptible to collapsing into a state of hybrid totalitarianism”: a society that is governed by both laws and violence. This term applies not only to Putin’s regime after 2022 but also to Lukashenko’s regime in Belarus. 
Georgia’s illiberal democracy is also showing this alarming trend, descending into authoritarianism at a rate reminiscent of the Stalin era. 
Regime-dependent clients bussed-in to pack Ivanishvili’s audience were not mobilized simply to show support, but to makethe regime’s obvious lies that the bill was inspired by the U.S. Foreign Agents Registration Act and is in Georgia’s best interests appear true. 
The regime has responded to the spontaneous, youth-led protests of recent weeks with brutality. Thousands of protesters and their families have reported receiving intimidating phone calls from anonymous numbers that threatened them with death and rape. While this campaign was underway, the speaker of Georgia’s parliament announced the creation of an incriminating database of the regime’s opponents and vowed to take appropriate measures” against them. 
Later that evening, prominent protest leaders and opposition voices were physically assaulted by thugs for hire who are de facto part of the regime’s security forces. Others found their houses marked with graffiti and posters of their faces branding them enemies of the people” or agents nurtured by foreign grants.” 
What we are witnessing is the re-enactment of brutal Stalinist practices used during collectivization and the Great Terror, adapted to modern technologies and social conditions. Whether an overwhelming protest movement can defeat the regime and conclusively reverse this dangerous trajectory will define Georgia’s future. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
The conflict in the Middle East is the perfect crisis for Russia, which is reaping a whole host of political benefits. The confrontation between Israel and Hamas has not only boosted the Kremlin’s hopes of changing the mood around the war in Ukraine, but also strengthened its belief that the Western-centric system of international relations is breaking down. 
The full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 put an end to most internal Western disagreements when it came to Russia, uniting countries on both sides of the Atlantic. But the Israel-Hamas war has seen divisions resurface at a state level: while the United States insists Israel has a right to self-defense, there have been bitter disagreements between European countries about what position the European Union should take. 
There are also societal divides, with protests by opponents and supporters of Israel taking place regularly from Washington to Stockholm. Even state agencies are not immune to these differing views, with media reports of widespread discontent among U.S. officials with the White House’s pro-Israel stance. 
Against this backdrop, the war in Ukraine has slipped down the agenda. The United States has said it will provide help to both Israel and Ukraine. But how long can it really be fully engaged in two major conflicts? Moscow’s hopes that the West will eventually tire of providing open-ended support for Kyiv have never looked so justified. 
In addition, Washington’s pro-Israel stance undermines the legitimacy of the West’s broader reasons for supporting Ukraine in the eyes of many in the Global South. The moral argument against Russia’s invasion of Ukraine now looks like empty words, particularly in Middle East nations. 
Photos of the ruins in Gaza, reports of thousands of dead children, and the outrage of humanitarian organizations have made a deep impression on people in the developing world. People can argue endlessly about the reasons for the war in Ukraine, or Israel’s operation in Gaza, but for many the conclusion is obvious: the United States was critical of Russia when it killed innocent civilians in Ukraine, and now it is silent when its ally Israel does the same thing in Gaza. 
A vision of the world in which morals and ideologies are irrelevant—and the only thing that counts are state interests—has long been the dominant one in the Kremlin. And this logic dictates that there is no better outcome for Moscow than the continuation of the Middle East conflict, which is destroying the West’s strategy toward Russia. Moscow does not even have to lift a finger: Israel’s ground operation in Gaza looks unlikely to end anytime soon. When it does, intractable issues will remain. 
True, the escalation in Gaza is not without risks for Russia, and if pro-Iranian forces get sucked in, it could become a major headache for the Kremlin. Moscow’s ties with Iran mean it has been drifting toward a pro-Tehran position in the Middle East for the last couple of years, but that does not mean it is ready to support Iran in a war with Israel. Such a development would oblige Russia to pick a side, and would have consequences for Russia’s intervention in Syria. 
For now, however, a broader military conflagration in the Middle East looks unlikely. Iran and its proxies have stayed out of the Gaza conflict so far, which means they are less likely to intervene further down the line. 
The Israel-Hamas war also poses some domestic dilemmas for the Kremlin. Judging by statements from officials, October’s anti-Semitic pogrom in Dagestan sent shockwaves through the Russian leadership. Nationalism and Russia’s ethnic republics are issues that previously worried the Kremlin. Now, Middle East policy will need to be made with half an eye on public opinion. 
This article was originally published by The Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Nikolai Epplée is a journalist, author, and independent researcher working on memorial culture and Soviet state terror. 
This lecture at Leiden University is part of a series of lectures organized by The Moscow Times at European universities and given by Russian media professionals. 
Tyanya residents’ chances of blocking Nordgold’s next venture in their mineral-rich region are slim. Activists say they have no choice but to try. 
A small Indigenous community in Russia’s Far East republic of Sakha (Yakutia) is challenging a gold-mining giant owned by Russian magnate Alexei Mordashov in what they deem a last-ditch attempt to preserve their traditional livelihoods. 
Residents of Tyanya, an Evenk village of about 470 people in Sakha’s southeastern Olyokminsky district, this month called on President Vladimir Putin and the republic’s head Aysen Nikolayev to bar Nordgold from developing a fourth mine in the area. 
We, both young and old, wish to continue our traditional way of life and pass these skills on to future generations of our people. And this is only possible if we conserve nature,” said the open letter signed by some 164 village residents. 
The letter states that unchecked gold mining leads to deforestation and water pollution, while airborne chemical dust particles from the mines settle on moss eaten by reindeer, shrinking the community’s traditional reindeer-herding grounds. 
Though their chances of blocking Nordgold’s latest venture in their mineral-rich region are slim, activists say that the residents have no choice but to try given the existential stakes. 
Calling for Putin’s help, this letter might look naive amid the invasion of Ukraine, but this is a cry of despair…these people simply have no other option,” said Sargylana Kondakova, co-founder of the Free Yakutia Foundation, Sakha’s largest anti-war and Indigenous rights movement. 
They don’t want money or anything of the sort, they simply want this predatory plundering of their land to end,” Kondakova, who is based in Australia, told The Moscow Times. 
Formerly nomadic Tungusic-speaking peoples native to North Asia, Evenks were subjected to forced sedentarization, collectivization and Russification under the Soviet authorities, policies that fueled their population decline. 
Today, there are fewer than 70,000 ethnic Evenks worldwide. More than half of them live across Russia’s Siberia and the Far East where some still attempt to sustain themselves through traditional practices. 
These people live off fishing, hunting and reindeer herding in its traditional form, aided by only a few modern technologies like snowmobiles. Their lifestyle is very similar to that led by previous generations,” said Stefania Kulaeva, a human rights activist and expert at the Brussels-based Anti-Discrimination Center (ADC) Memorial. 
This difficult life in extreme climatic conditions is certainly deserving of respect and support, especially given its importance for preserving the planet,” she added, noting that Indigenous land use practices are widely hailed as the most nature-conserving and planet-friendly way of managing resources.” 
With the nearest town located some 280 kilometers to the north, no paved roads or internet access, Tyanya’s residents have been able to preserve their ancestors’ secluded traditional livelihood, but Nordgold’s expansion has increasingly loomed over their community. 
Nordgold opened Tabornyi, its first open-pit mine near Tyanya, in 2007. It has since expanded its work in the area to two additional mines, Gross and Tokko, which produce over 20 tons of gold per year combined. 
Forced to scale down its foreign operations due to Western sanctions over Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, Nordgold set its sights on developing a fourth mine in Sakha, Vrezannoe. 
Gold extraction by open-pit mining can pollute territories located tens and even hundreds of kilometers away,” said Ilya Shumanov of Arctida, an NGO producing expert analysis and investigations on the Russian Arctic. It is the cheapest and most dangerous for the environment.” 
While extraction industry giants like Nordgold are required to submit reports on the environmental damage inflicted by their operations, official documents are unlikely to reflect the real picture, according to Shumanov. 
We shouldn’t solely look at numbers and reports … but also at how residents are actually suffering,” Shumanov told The Moscow Times. 
Nordgold’s public reports on the environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts of its operations inadvertently reveal efforts to conceal its turbulent relations with the Indigenous people of Tyanya, according to Ekaterina Zibrova, a specialist in diversity, equity and inclusion at The Wits Center for Diversity Studies in Johannesburg. 
They write very specific things about their social support work in Burkina Faso and Guinea and show very concrete numbers. … What do they write about [mines in] Russia? Just that they ‘offered monetary support to low-income families’,” Zibrova explained, noting that reports withhold specifics on how Nordgold supports local communities in Siberia. 
This illustrates the narrative of concealing what is happening in Siberia and the north of Russia, which derives its legacy from the Soviet era,” Zibrova told The Moscow Times. 
The world can look into what is happening in Guinea because it is far more open and more accessible than the north of Siberia — no one knows what kind of people live there and no one, of course, has heard of Evenks,” she added. 
The Moscow Times has sent a request for comment to Nordgold. 
Though Nordgold claims it maintains friendly relations with Tyanya’s residents and gives back to the community through social and financial support programs, its standoff with local Evenks dates back years and was once led by community leader Arsentiy Nikolaev. 
In 2020 Nikolaev, then also a deputy in Sakha’s parliament, was placed under house arrest on charges of bribery and extortion brought against him by Nordgold. He died at age 63 in November 2021 from an unspecified illness. 
Locals maintain that the case against Nikolaev, which warranted the involvement of Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB), was retaliation for his attempts to defend the interests of Indigenous people and believe that his house arrest contributed to his untimely death. 
This community is quite well-known in Sakha for its protests. Everyone in the republic knows how they fought, everyone knows that their leader was arrested on fabricated charges,” said Kondakova of Free Yakutia. 
There is no one like them in other districts of the republic, though Sakha is large and there are many other [extraction] companies working there,” she added. 
Following Nikolaev’s passing, his daughter Viktoria Nikolaeva took over as the local community leader, though her name was strikingly absent among the signatories of the latest letter to Putin. 
But not everyone in the community thinks that standing up to extractive companies is the best path forward. 
From my grandmother and relatives in Yakutia, I have heard that we [locals] should work for these companies to achieve career goals, that this is a good opportunity for us,” said a former employee of Nordgold’s parent structure Severgroup whose ethnic Sakha family hails from Tyanya. 
The logic is often: if these natural resource companies are extracting from our land anyway, they should create employment for us,” they told The Moscow Times, requesting anonymity out of fears of legal action by the company. 
Meanwhile, in its initial reaction to the open letter, Nordgold labeled signatories foreign agents” and extremists,” a move that infuriated the Evenk community and even warranted condemnation from a regional deputy from the ruling United Russia party. 
How could they call us, the indigenous people of Tyanya, whose sons, brothers and husbands are protecting their motherland in the special military operation [in Ukraine], ‘foreign agents’?” news outlet Sakha Day quoted local resident Zhanna Poluektova as saying. 
Why does … Nordgold distort facts and portray us as deceivers?” Poluektova continued. All 164 residents signed the letter personally because we have no other choice. We are being driven out of our own native territories where the company is opening new mines and destroying the environment.” 
Locals’ support for Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and for Putin himself — which residents repeatedly highlight — has made some members of Russia’s liberal opposition question whether the community’s struggle is worthy of their support. 
Others argue that it is naive” to expect Putin to act against the interests of his protege Mordashov. 
But expert Zibrova, an ethnic Evenk herself, said she believes that expressing loyalty to Putin is the community’s only option in an environment where virtually all anti-Kremlin dissent is repressed. 
These people are stuck between two overpowering systems. On one hand, there is the state that pressures you, takes your men away [to the war] … doesn’t develop the infrastructure and fosters further isolation. On the other, there is this business, which comes and takes things away and keeps digging further into your land,” said Zibrova. 
When you find yourself in a situation of oppression and violence, then even realizing that these are two sides of the same coin is very difficult,” she added. 
Kondakova of Free Yakutia voiced a similar view. 
This fourth mine will be put into operation no matter what,” she said. But this [initiative] … shows other people in [Sakha] that the environment is still being destroyed and no one will defend their rights except themselves.” 
We discuss the achievements of COP27 with Svitlana Romanko, an environmental lawyer, COP27 attendee and the founder of Ukrainian NGO Razom We Stand. Svitlana also spoke about her powerful protests and campaigns, from calls for a total ban on Russian fossil fuel imports to confrontations with Total’s CEO and Russian delegates at the conference. 
In the first lecture of a new lecture series to take place at different European universities and organized by The Moscow Times, Alexander Gubsky, publisher of The Moscow Times, speaks at the University of Amsterdam about the war in Ukraine and its consequences for Russia. 
After an initial rush of hope, doubt in the possibility of a Ukrainian victory has crept into Kyiv’s allies in the West, especially considering indications that Russia's cash reserves will be sufficient to fight for another year. But experience shows that the U.S. is capable of funding wars at a much greater scale and for much longer. The recent passage of $61 billion of aid is an encouraging sign that Kyiv’s allies still have the will to support Ukraine’s existential fight. 
Three years into the Russian-Ukrainian war, Europeans' early overconfidence in Ukraine's victory and anticipation of a successful Ukrainian counteroffensive, had been replaced with despondency. Now, according to a survey by the European Council on Foreign Relations, only 10% of Europeans believe the war will end in a Ukrainian victory, half as many as expect Russia to win. 31% of respondents believe that the EU should continue to support Ukraine until it returns its territories, while 41% think that Europe should push Ukraine to negotiate. The failure of the 2023 counteroffensive, Russia's new offensive, and internal conflicts within the EU and the U.S. that have prevented the regular supply of money and weapons to Ukraine are contributing to this growing frustration. 
Despite this, the majority of Americans support providing military aid to Ukraine, even if Donald Trump comes to power in America and the United States finally withdraws its support. Only a third of respondents believe Washington should reduce its support, while 20% think it should be increased. 
At the same time, it cannot be said that supporting Ukraine would overstretch the American or European budgets. Over the two years of the war, European countries and organizations have provided Ukraine with 88.7 billion euros of military, humanitarian and financial aid, while the United States has provided $75 billion before the passage of the latest aid bill. Half of the 144 billion euros ($154 billion) the EU promised Ukraine has not been distributed. Therefore, experts monitoring aid to Ukraine, note that the EU could radically increase its support by simply accelerating its efforts without having to introduce any new aid packages. 
For comparison, the U.S. spent the equivalent of $139 billion on the Gulf War, which lasted less than a year. The wars in Afghanistan and Korea each cost more than $400 billion. The wars in Iraq and Vietnam cost Americans more than a trillion dollars each, not counting the cost of rehabilitation and payments to veterans, which tends to double the cost of these wars even after fighting has ceased. The War on Terror was especially expensive, costing Washington over $8 trillion. 
Against this background, the meager spending on assistance to Ukraine looks ridiculous. The benefits of supporting Kyiv in the fight against Russia, which has long been Washington’s main competitor and is the main destabilizer of the world order, obviously outweigh the benefits of investments in the fight against Vietnamese farmers and any terrorist groups. 
Despite its economy being comparable to the United States, Europe has never invested so heavily in warfare before. However, the cost of Ukraine's defeat will largely fall on European shoulders. Even if the Russian-backed right-wingers gain significant support in the upcoming European Parliamentary elections, they are unlikely to want to be responsible for the tens of millions of Ukrainian refugees that will flood Europe again if Ukraine is defeated. 
Ukraine is currently facing a shortage of money, shells, and human resources. Shell production in Europe should soon increase and cease becoming a problem by the end of the year. The shortage of money and weapons has more to do with a lack of political will in the EU and U.S. than any real constraints. 
Despite Russia having three times the population of Ukraine, its army is far less efficient in its use of manpower. Furthermore, its mobilization potential is far more limited than many people think, as people with sufficient social and economic capital can avoid the draft. If Kyiv can build a system to successfully rotate troops off the front lines, raise military salaries, and recruit foreign mercenaries it could allow Ukraine to reduce Russia’s manpower advantage. 
If Ukraine proves capable of holding the frontline for at least another year, it will pile pressure on Russia’s economy, which has been stagnant for six months. Economic growth since the beginning of the war has been fueled solely by the injection of state money into the military-industrial complex and military salaries. At current spending levels, the Russian National Welfare Fund, which provides most of Russia's spending on the war and keeping the Russian economy stable in isolation, is expected to be depleted by 2025, according to analysts. 
In this regard, the government is desperately seeking new sources of budget replenishment: tax hikes are being discussed. Last year, the government temporarily stopped subsidizing oil refineries to sell their products domestically rather than exporting it for a higher price, which provoked a crisis in the Russian gasoline market. The Yermak-McFaul group believes that to undermine Russia's ability to continue the war, its oil and gas revenues need to be cut by $50 billion a year. For now, efforts to limit Russia's oil revenues, including destroying oil refineries, are one of the surest ways to bring the war to a close. 
The EU and the U.S. are capable of supporting Ukraine for as long as is necessary. They have enough resources to do so. History shows that the United States has spent far more resources on much less important conflicts. In addition, America is capable of replacing and displacing Russian oil and gas exports because it has enough of these resources and world market prices favor the development of these industries. 
Public opinion remains consolidated behind this. In Europe and America, 70% of citizens are in favor of continued aid to Ukraine, and the number of supporters of this point of view is still decreasing very slowly, falling by about 2% per year. 80% of Ukrainian citizens say they are not ready to give Russia territory in exchange for peace. 
Meanwhile, in Russia, the core support for the war has shrunk by 12-15% over 2023, and the number of supporters of negotiations has exceeded the number of supporters of continuing the war, even though the general population has remained unaffected by the consequences of the war and the army did not face major defeats that year. The Ukrainian counteroffensive may not have been successful on the battlefield, but it may have been a turning point for Russian public opinion, just as the Vietcong's inconclusive Tet Offensive was a turning point in the United States. 
The only thing that can help Russia win this war is a lack of political will and the rise of right-wing populists in the West. Western indecision in imposing sanctions on petroleum products has given Russia nearly $200 billion in excess revenue over the past two years, allowing it to offset the effect of the other sanctions and initiate a record increase in military spending. Delays in supplying crucial arms to Ukraine allowed Russia to build defensive lines Ukraine has struggled to penetrate and to exploit Ukraine’s degraded air defenses by bombarding cities and infrastructure. 
2024 has become known as the year of elections,” as people in 60 countries will take to the polls. The results will determine whether the trend of democratic backsliding that has been taking place over the past decade will continue. The most important of these will be, of course, the U.S. presidential election, where Trump's victory threatens to cut Ukraine off from its largest donor. 
However, Europe is capable of continuing to support Ukraine sufficiently on its own if it summons the necessary resolve. And the international conservative alliance built around hatred of migrants, Muslims, and trans people, and strategies that undermine the strength of democracies, is weakened by internal divisions. 
Despite dire predictions, it is possible that if Trump does return to power, things might not be as bad as people fear. After all, when he was last in office, he became convinced that Vladimir Putin could not be trusted despite having praised the Russian president, even going as far as to send Ukraine anti-tank missiles before the full-scale invasion. Polish Foreign Minister Radoslav Sikorski pointed out that despite Trump’s closest allies being most vocally opposed to aiding Ukraine, Trump himself has not protested the aid’s eventual passage. Perhaps there is still hope that if the year of elections sees a resurgence from the right, Ukraine might not be totally cut adrift. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Nataliya Rostova is one of the leading researchers on Russian media. In her lecture "The Russian Media: Lessons of the 1990s," Rostova discusses how the vector of Russian media development, established after the collapse of the U.S.S.R., led to the Putin regime — and explains who among Putin's functionaries are the real pillars of the regime. 
This lecture at George Washington University is part of a series of talks by media professionals and experts on Russia organized by The Moscow Times at leading universities and research centers around the world. 
The Sad Beauty of Russia's Abandoned Villages 
Mar 18, 2024 - 06:17 pm 
Russia’s big cities may appear to be flourishing, filled with shops, restaurants, recently built apartment buildings, malls and entertainment venues. But many if not most of Russia’s villages are not enjoying the same economic boom. Infrastructure is in poor shape, job opportunities are scant, schools are closed as families move to larger towns and cities, and churches that once welcomed several villages are now abandoned and crumbling. Tver oblast is right next to Moscow. It is considered a top spot for vacations with several beautiful lakes, including Lake Seliger, famously the site of a Kremlin-sponsored youth camp, and the Valdai hills where three enormous rivers have their sources: the Volga, the Dnipro (called Dnieper in Russia) and the Daugava (called the Western Dvina in Russia). The most populous cities in the region are Tver, Torzhok, Kimri and Rzhev, and the region has some industry. But it ranks in the lower half of economic development in Russia, in 39th place out of 83 federal subjects. 
Eski village. 
A village store. 
MT 
Kor-Koshevo village. 
A house that must have once been the pride of the street, beautiful "nalichniki" (carved window surrounds) and a second-floor balcony. 
MT 
Kor-Koshevo village. . 
But a cat has good mouse hunting in this abandoned home 
MT 
Despite intact decorative carving and bright paint, this house also appears abandoned. 
MT 
Biology classroom in an abandoned school in the Tver region. 
A small village school that was heated by stoves but provided an education at the same level as in major cities. 
MT 
Biology classroom in an abandoned school in the Tver region. 
Children came from several villages nearby by buses, bikes, car and on foot. 
MT 
Chemistry classroom in an abandoned school in the Tver region. 
The school was closed when there were only a few children in the district of school age. 
MT 
Church of Michael the Archangel (1819), Sukhodol village. 
A bell tower that once called people to church. 
MT 
Church of Michael the Archangel, Sukhodol village. 
The interior has been stripped of all but the remnants of frescos. 
MT 
Korovkino village. 
No power lines mean that these houses have to generate their own heat and electricity. 
MT 
Church of the Annunciation of the Blessed Virgin Mary in the Beloye village. 
No roads lead to this church today. 
MT 
The surviving domes of the Church of the Icon of the Mother of God of Tikhvin in the village of Sinevo-Dubrovo. 
The Tikhvin Icon of the Mother of God is believed to have been created by the Apostle Luke and appeared miraculously near the Tikhvin River. 
MT 
Church of the Presentation of the Lord in the village of Kor-Koshevo. 
The faded images in a fresco appear to still welcome worshippers. 
MT 
Road to Eski village. 
Church of the Holy Trinity in the Skirki village. 
In 1859 the village had 205 inhabitants; in 2010 it had one. 
MT 
The flooded bell tower in Kalyazin. 
The bell tower was built 1796—1800 as part of the Monastery of St. Nicholas. In 1939 Stalin ordered the monastery dismantled and the area flooded when a dam was built. The bell tower was used as a lighthouse. Now it holds occasional services. 
MT 
Сulture center in Kalyazin. 
The sign calls people to vote in the presidential elections: "Together we are strong; vote for Russia." 
Since the beginning of the war, Ukraine has been tasked with securing the broadest possible support from the international community, including the Global South. However, today, in the third year of the war, this task is still far from being accomplished. 
If at the very beginning of Russia's aggression against Ukraine the overwhelming majority of states supported the UN General Assembly's condemnation of the aggression and demands for an immediate cessation of military operations and the withdrawal of Russian troops from Ukraine, the picture is now very different. 
This was not so much facilitated by the efforts of Russian diplomats, but by the lack of a clear strategy on the part of Ukraine's Western partners, led by the United States. They have demonstrated an extremely cautious and frankly weak policy toward containing Russia and stopping its aggression. 
Obviously, in the eyes of most states, the West’s lack of a clear strategy and sense of what they want to achieve from Russia has become evidence of the pro-Ukrainian camp’s weakness and indecisiveness. 
In comparison, Russia's policy toward Ukraine, namely its continued advance and large-scale strikes on civilian infrastructure, looks like a more coherent strategy. According to many politicians, it is based on certain calculations that cannot be neglected, especially if these calculations are made in the capital of a nuclear power. Thus, President Vladimir Putin's blunt aggression looks like it could pay off. 
Ukrainian diplomats are still trying to forge a meaningful and presentable coalition behind Kyiv. Over the past two years, several multilateral conferences have been held to consider Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky's peace plan which includes calls for, a ceasefire and the withdrawal of Russian troops as preconditions. 
In June, Switzerland is to host another high-level conference in the hope of determining how a peaceful resolution to the conflict can be reached. Russia has not been invited, and has characteristically managed to take offense at this. But it is obvious that a fruitful discussion would be impossible with Russian delegates present. 
The meeting should simply approve Zelensky's plan, possibly with some additions and changes, as a basic platform on the basis of which Ukraine and the countries that support it are ready to talk to Russia. 
China, which has pushed for direct talks between Russia and Ukraine has yet to confirm whether it will take part in the conference. However, even if China does not attend, the conference still has the potential to be meaningful. 
It is an opportunity for Kyiv and its Western allies to push for specific objectives and demands in language that is as precise as possible. A specific plan is hard to build a consensus around because each country has its own views on Ukraine’s situation and what should be done. But a more poorly-defined plan is no easier to implement because each signatory will interpret it in its own way. 
The question arises as to how far the countries of the Global South which will agree to participate are willing to go. So far, there have been no tectonic shifts in their attitude toward Russian aggression. The Swiss organizers have started managing expectations ahead of the conference, realizing that it is unlikely that they will be able to boast of any serious diplomatic breakthroughs. 
However, there are grounds for optimism. The U.S. Congress has finally approved a $60 billion aid package for Ukraine. This is a signal to the entire international community that the United States still supports Ukraine and is not out of the game yet. 
But there is the question of exactly how this assistance will be distributed and how effective it will be. Will Washington change its vicious approach of supplying Ukraine with arms at the rate of a teaspoon per hour? If this practice continues, we cannot expect a change in the course of the war. 
There is also a risk that this aid will arrive too late. It is plausible that Putin, faced with the prospect of massive supplies of Western weapons to Ukraine, may try to dramatically increase recruitment for the armycompensate for the Ukrainians' more sophisticated weaponry. The appearance of hundreds of thousands or even a million additional soldiers, even if they are comparatively poorly armed, could become a very serious test for the Ukrainian defense. 
This, in turn, threatens the West with an unpleasant choice: either accept Ukraine's defeat or intervene in the war directly to save Kyiv from total collapse. 
The battle for the minds and hearts of the global community lies not so much in diplomatic tricks and propaganda slogans, but first and foremost in the willingness and determination of each side to pursue the matter to a victorious end. Countries and governments in the Global South value human life much less than in the West and are more likely to see force as an acceptable way to solve problems. These countries will value the will to win above everything else. To them demands for an unconditional peace are not a sign of good will, but weakness and insecurity. 
Western countries still face the same challenge as in early 2022 — demonstrating that they are as willing to stand up for what is right as Putin is to continue the war. The majority of the world will not side with the most morally righteous country, but with the strongest. 
The West has every reason and resources to be the strongest. All that remains is the political will and understanding of what needs to be done to make this fact unignorable. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
The world is witnessing the unprecedented spectacle of a civilian atomic energy station being occupied by a foreign invader. The March 2022 seizure of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southeastern Ukraine by Russian troops has thrust six nuclear reactors and pools of spent nuclear fuel onto the front lines of Europe’s biggest land war since World War II. 
It’s something the international nuclear energy community never thought it would see — and thus never prepared for. As a result, the world has watched helplessly as heavy ordnance strikes nail-bitingly close to the plant on a regular basis, repeatedly disrupting outside power to the station’s critical cooling and safety systems. 
At the center of this powder keg sits Rosatom, Russia’s state nuclear corporation, has emerged as a key player in Moscow’s assault on Ukraine. Rosatom personnel are now running the station and treating it as their own property, regardless of the international community’s refusal to recognize their claim. 
Rosatom’s board is packed with former security officials who have ties reaching into President Vladimir Putin’s administration. It is thus inconceivable that Rosatom’s participation in the invasion wasn’t conceived at the highest levels. 
Unlike the rest of Russia’s energy sector, Rosatom has escaped largely unscathed from Western sanctions despite numerous appeals from Kyiv to blacklist the corporation. In fact, Rosatom’s fortunes have actually improved since the beginning of the war. The corporation posted $10 billion in foreign sales last year, a 15% increase from the previous year. A report by the Bellona Foundation highlights how the West’s continued links with Rosatom are at odds with its strategy in Ukraine. 
While not as lucrative for Moscow as oil and gas exports — which even in light of sanctions still total about $7 billion a month — Rosatom still provides a valuable revenue stream for the Kremlin’s war effort in Ukraine. This money also goes to Russia’s nuclear arsenal, which Rosatom is responsible for building and maintaining. Many of Ukraine’s allies have a hand in that by doing business with Rosatom. Why won’t the West shut off that money spigot? 
The problem is that Rosatom is an almost unavoidable presence in the international nuclear sphere. It sits at the center of a web of interlocking dependencies that are exceptionally difficult to untangle. 
As of 2021, there were 439 total nuclear reactors in operation worldwide. Thirty-eight of these were in Russia. Another 42 of those operating in other countries were of the Russian VVER design — including 19 in just five European Union member states. All of these depend on Russian-manufactured nuclear fuel. 
Russia also owns between 40 and 46% of the world’s uranium conversion infrastructure, according to a report from Columbia University, which is critical for fabricating nuclear fuel. Europe obtains 20% of its uranium from Russia. Last year, the United States relied on Russia for 12% of its uranium, with another 30% coming from two of Moscow's close partners, Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan. 
All the while, Rosatom has been supplying Russian weapons makers with the sanctioned materials needed to build the missiles they are firing on Ukraine. 
Despite these obvious signs that Rosatom is a major player in Moscow’s invasion, there has been slow progress among Ukraine’s allies to sever their own ties to the corporation. There are 15 Russian-designed reactors under construction in other nations — including NATO members Hungary and Turkey. Hungary — where Russia is building two VVER reactors with a long-term fuel and service contract paid for by a 10-billion-euro loan from Rosatom — has thwarted attempts by the EU to act as a bloc and introduce sweeping sanctions against the corporation. 
Individual members, however, can — and should — take their own unilateral actions. 
Soon after the invasion in 2022, Sweden refused to purchase Russian nuclear fuel. Finland, which relies on Russian fuel at two out of its five reactors, scrapped a controversial deal with Rosatom to build a new nuclear power plant. 
Countries and private firms have also turned to alternative providers of nuclear fuel, particularly the U.S. Westinghouse Electric Company. The Finnish energy company Fortum, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Slovakia have all announced agreements with the firm. 
But this will not be an immediate solution. Fortum will only start using fuel from Westinghouse as its contracts with the Rosatom subsidiary TVEL expire over the next seven years. Finalizing new deals with Westinghouse could take as long as three years, and national regulators will also need to analyze and license the new fuel. 
Ukraine itself was once a customer of Rosatom, relying on its fuel to supply the country’s 15 Soviet-built reactors. It is also working to shift to Westinghouse fuel, but it will be years before this transition is complete. 
France, the European nation most reliant on nuclear energy, is going in the other direction. Last year, according to French government data, the country imported more than $370 million worth of enriched uranium from Russia in 2022, over three times what it imported in 2021. However, the lower figure in 2021 may reflect the fact that, in previous years, some French purchases of Russian-enriched uranium were reportedly delivered directly to facilities abroad where it would be made into fuel. 
France itself is capable of enriching uranium domestically, and exports fuel to the U.S., Britain, Japan, Sweden, Germany and South Korea. There are also reports that uranium from Russia has been imported to Germany, where it was processed for use in French nuclear power plants. France’s high dependency on Rosatom contradicts Paris’s support for Kyiv. 
The United States is also making slow progress towards punishing Rosatom. Legislation has been proposed that would cut off Rosatom-produced enriched uranium from the U.S. market. But with a deeply divided Congress, it seems unlikely it will be passed. 
Rosatom’s uranium enrichment capacity seems to be its current trump card for avoiding sanctions. Building up enrichment capacity elsewhere to replace it will take time and significant investment. The United States is at least ten years from being able to supplant the supplies of enriched uranium they currently purchase from Rosatom. 
However, knowing that continued reliance on Rosatom is helping to finance the Russian war effort would make such an investment worthwhile. The longer Western nations shy away from that fact, the more fragile and morally fraught their dependence on Rosatom becomes. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
KHIMKI, Moscow region — On a sunny May afternoon, a young man named Yevgeny sits on a bench in a courtyard, watching his child run around on the playground. 
Two years ago, when his family chose this location in the Moscow region as their home, it seemed like it could be a perfect fit. After all, the Mayak apartment complex is a quiet gated community with its own courtyard and a nearby yacht club and sand beach along the canal. 
But last year, he and his family discovered that their new home lacks basic amenities like clean tap water and safe sanitation. 
You enter the lobby and you smell the sewage. We’ve smelled it every day since last fall,” Yevgeny told The Moscow Times, describing the unsanitary conditions” in the complex’s centerpiece high-rise tower where he lives. 
In mid-May, the community of this affluent residence in Khimki, a suburb just 20 kilometers from Moscow’s city center, raised the alarm over sewage overflow. Residents posted videos showing the ground floor flooded with wastewater and reported a "persistent smell of feces" seeping into apartments on every floor.” 
The smell is not the only unpleasant thing. Sewage overflow has been linked to infectious diseases including tuberculosis, poliomyelitis and hepatitis A. 
On May 18, sewage effluents still lingered beneath the Mayak’s high-rise tower, just steps away from the Moscow Canal and the yacht club, as seen by The Moscow Times’ reporter. 
Yevgeny’s family is also unable to drink the tap water. 
The water is very bad — some people in the group chats even say that it's the color of Fanta [orange soda]. We constantly clean the system because it clogs up. We see how rusty it is, but there's nothing we can do," he continued. 
This is hardly the first sewage failure here. After a new private school opened nearby last year, the Mayak complex and the school itself were almost constantly submerged in sewage water,” Yevgeny said. 
It seems that during construction, the developer did not replace some of the old [sewage] systems. They might have cut costs, or perhaps they didn't anticipate this,” he said. 
It's possible that there were initially some miscalculations because the [sewage] load should have been calculated to be higher.” 
Yevgeny asked that his name be changed due to the potential repercussions of publicly criticizing his housing administrator. 
Other Moscow suburbs have seen similar incidents. In the town of Shchyolkovo, a state of emergency was declared last year due to a heavy sewage discharge into the local Klyazma River. 
'Whole bunch of problems' 
Marina, a Mayak resident who recently bought an apartment here, told The Moscow Times that she was already disappointed” by the sewage failures. 
I really liked the place, but it turned out to be a whole bunch of problems. The building is even infested with silverfish bugs. The management company doesn't treat them," Marina said, sharing a video where the insect, a common household pest, was uncovered under the floorboards in her new home. 
I've even halted renovations for now. I’m considering whether to sell [the apartment]... In the community group chat, they often talk about rusty water, too. I haven’t encountered this yet, but it makes me worried.” 
Mayak’s developer touts the complex as a "symbol of luxurious living" in an ecologically pure area with panoramic water views. 
Though it’s located in a suburb of the Russian capital, apartments in this complex are sold at prices similar to real estate in Moscow itself, Yevgeny said, adding that Mayak’s prices have recently risen significantly. 
"At the development stage, we bought [a three-room apartment] of 86 square meters for 13 million rubles [$142,000]. And now it costs 26 million." 
In 2023, the average annual salary stood at 1.7 million rubles in Moscow and 1 million rubles in the Moscow region. 
While some have already poured millions into their dream apartment, only to find themselves enveloped in foul smells, for others, Mayak was simply beyond their means. 
By Khimki standards, the apartments here are expensive,” said a middle-aged woman from a neighboring high-rise who was taking a walk with a child relative in Mayak’s courtyard. 
When we had the choice to buy in Mayak or in that [neighboring building] — that was a year ago — of course, we just couldn't afford the apartments in Mayak,” said the woman, who declined to share her name. 
The water utility notified residents in April that the local sewage pumping station was in critical condition and its reconstruction was underway. 
Yevgeny said that the utility company and officials only took action after numerous complaints from residents. 
The progress [on addressing the issue] is currently underway, but we don't know if it will be in a positive direction or not,” he said. 
An equator of obsolete pipes 
Mayak’s situation illustrates how relentless urban development on top of Russia’s obsolete infrastructure has made public utility failures a common occurrence for many Russians. 
This winter, mass utility outages left millions without heating, water or electricity across the country, including in Moscow’s suburbs. 
In one of the largest sewage overflow accidents, wastewater flooded the southern city of Volgograd and spilled into the Volga River, Russia’s main waterway, in 2022. 
A year before, 11 workers died in a sewage collector in the southwestern city of Taganrog due to a sewage rupture with a gas release. 
Officials acknowledge that the wear and tear on sewage treatment facilities, many of which were built in the 1960s and 1970s, is a chronic problem for most of Russia’s regions, many of which lack the funds to replace them. 
While the number of sewage-related accidents in Russia has fallen in recent years, the total length of pipes needing replacement is on the rise and currently stands at 38,600 kilometers — nearly the length of the Equator. 
According to some estimates, 17 major sewage facilities in the Moscow region are overloaded. Since some housing like countryside dachas lacks centralized sewage, authorities report unauthorized discharges into the sewage system that further stress the aging pipes. 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin in May announced a 4.5-trillion-ruble ($50 billion) program to modernize the country’s utility infrastructure, with 90% of its funds allocated to pipe replacement. Russia’s 2024 defense budget is over twice as large by comparison. 
The sluggish pace of sewage system renewal could be due to insufficient investment, potential corruption and a lack of stakeholders with an economic interest in proper maintenance, a Russian environmental expert and activist told The Moscow Times. 
Another issue is poor public oversight of authorities’ and utilities’ actions. The expert said that some Russians, especially those who lived through the Soviet era, may sometimes lack the agency to address issues happening beyond their doorstep. 
Consequently, these residents might not actively engage with issues concerning their apartment buildings or attend homeowners’ meetings, they said. 
Vodokanal [the water utility company] has its responsibility, budget and a repairman — they must come and fix any issues,” said the expert, who requested anonymity due to their affiliation with a group targeted by the authorities. 
But on the other hand, who is supposed to monitor them? It’s a collective ‘owner’ consisting of residents who … live in this building. And how they keep an eye on things will determine whether they end up in these situations.” 
Back in the Mayak courtyard, the anonymous middle-aged woman took a stoic view of the issue. 
Look at how big the buildings are here — there just can't be a situation where there are absolutely no problems,” she said. 
In our building, it's like: someone or another's apartment was flooded or some pipes burst somewhere. It's the same everywhere, I think.” 
Thousands Evacuated From Ukraine's Kharkiv Region Amid Renewed Russian Offensive 
May 14, 2024 - 12:08 pm 
Thousands of Ukrainians have fled northeastern Ukraine's Kharkiv region in the face of a renewed Russian offensive and the opening of a new front in the war. Kharkiv Governor Oleh Syniehubov said on Telegram Monday that over 5,700 people had been evacuated so far, as Russian troops captured at least nine settlements and villages after surging across the border on May 10. The Kharkiv region, home to Ukraine’s second-largest city, has faced regular shelling throughout the war and much of the civilian population had already fled prior to the latest offensive. Local authorities and volunteers are working to evacuate remaining residents from villages under heavy shelling, while the Ukrainian military, stretched thin and facing ammunition shortages, has struggled to respond to the offensive. MT has collected photos of the evacuation efforts: 
Oksana Velychko (C), 45, gathers with her children and relatives from Vovchansk after arriving at an evacuation point in the Kharkiv region. Vovchansk, a town with a pre-war population of around 17,500, has been the focal point of the latest attack. 
Roman Pilipey / AFP 
An elderly woman from Vovchansk sits with her dog in a minivan at an evacuation point in the Kharkiv region. 
Roman Pilipey / AFP 
Evacuees arrive by bus at an evacuation point in the Kharkiv region. 
Roman Pilipey / AFP 
An evacuee from a border settlements in Kharkiv holds her cat. 
State Emergency Service of Ukraine 
A volunteer helps an elderly woman who was evacuated from the Vovchansk as she arrives at an evacuation point in Kharkiv. 
Roman Pilipey / AFP 
An elderly resident of a border settlement in Kharkiv is evacuated. 
State Emergency Service of Ukraine 
Residents of border settlements evacuate as Russian forces push toward the city of Kharkiv. 
State Emergency Service of Ukraine 
A psychologist from the State Emergency Service provides support to an elderly evacuee. 
State Emergency Service of Ukraine 
A State Emergency Service psychologist speaks to an evacuated resident. 
State Emergency Service of Ukraine 
Russian shelling killed a 73-year-old woman in Vovchansk. 
State Emergency Service of Ukraine 
Vovchansk after Russian shelling. The town had a pre-war population of around 17,500 but volunteers working in the region estimate that only 200 to 300 people remain. 
At least 2,500 dead Caspian seals have been found on the shores of Russia’s Caspian Sea coast, local authorities said Sunday. 
Photos published online showed the mammals' carcasses scattered across the beach. 
The Russian republic of Dagestan’s natural resources ministry said the endangered seals had likely died of natural causes,” adding that laboratory tests will further shed light on the mysterious deaths. 
Zaur Gapizov, head of the Caspian Environmental Protection Center, said the seals may have died weeks ago and their overall number is likely higher. 
No signs of violent deaths or fishing nets were found,” the state-run RIA Novosti news agency quoted Gapizov as saying. 
Samples from the seals’ internal organs did not show signs of pollutants, the Dagestan natural resources ministry said in a statement on the Telegram messaging app. 
The Kommersant business daily cited a North Caucasus fisheries official as saying that the seals may have been killed by prolonged storms, while the Fontanka.ru news website reported that the mass deaths could have been caused by a natural gas leak from the resource-rich sea. 
Many of the dead Caspian seals were discovered between the mouths of two rivers and one canal in the southern Russian republic. 
The unexplained incident is believed to be the largest mass death of Caspian seals in recent years following the discovery of some 300 carcasses at various points in 2020-21. 
After one of the discoveries last year, Russia’s fisheries agency reported that most Caspian seals had died from the natural cause” of suffocation from the seafloor. 
The latest die-off comes a month after fish inspection authorities in Kazakhstan, which also has a long Caspian coastline, discovered 141 dead Caspian seals on its shores. 
Caspian seals, the only mammals found in the Caspian Sea, have been listed as endangered by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) since 2008. 
The Caspian seal population has dropped by 90% over the past century due to illegal hunting and climate change-driven declines in water levels, according to the UN. 
Dagestan’s natural resources ministry estimates the population of Caspian seals at up to 300,000. 
The Caspian Environmental Protection Center meanwhile places the total population of Caspian seals at fewer than 70,000. 
Gapizov told RIA Novosti his center will seek state funding to count the Caspian seal population. 
A song by the Russian pro-war pop star Shaman is being used in TikTok videos showing same-sex couples embracing, a trend that appears aimed at ironically juxtaposing extremist” LGBTQ+ lifestyles with the song’s militaristic overtones. 
Moy Boy,” whose title translates into English as My Fight,” features the lyrics I’m Russian, I go to the end,” while its accompanying music video shows scenes of camouflaged Russian soldiers serving in occupied eastern Ukraine. 
Some listeners have reinterpreted Moy Boy” into a more literal anglicization of the phrase My Boy” and used it as background music for TikToks in which they show their queer relationships. 
Scores of these videos have appeared on TikTok since mid-March, with same-sex couples lip-syncing the chorus to Moy Boy,” dancing and embracing each other. 
Some users thanked Shaman for the beautiful song,” while others joked about hoping to see it performed at the Eurovision Song Contest in 2030. 
The pro-LGBTQ+ reinterpretation of Moy Boy” comes amid a deepening crackdown on LGBTQ+ people and lifestyles in Russia, which has seen at least two people charged for LGBTQ+ extremism” over the past month. 
Russia’s Supreme Court designated the international LGBT movement,” which does not formally exist, as an extremist” organization in November 2023. State financial watchdog Rosfinmonitoring added the movement” to its list of terrorists and extremists” in March. 
The German translation of Moy Boy” — Mein Kampf” — has fueled accusations that Shaman, whose real name is Yaroslav Dronov, evokes Nazi aesthetics” in his artistry. 
Veteran journalist Tom Parfitt came up with the idea of a solo walk through Russia’s North Caucasus after reporting on the bloody Beslan school siege by Islamic militants in 2004. The undertaking was, as he puts it, his way of trying to dilute” the memories of that horror. 
The result is a poignant, beautiful and sometimes unbearably sad first-person journey through an epic landscape. 
On one level, this is a traditional travelog. Parfitt’s descriptions of steppes and mountains are lyrical, and his interactions with a whole cast of characters — from shepherds and soldiers to farmers, monks and a delta-plane enthusiast — are engaging and life-affirming. 
The nature of walking can mean encounters are fleeting, even superficial, but this is more than compensated by expansive Caucasian hospitality and Parfitt’s wonderful pen portraits. When, for example, three young men jump out of a truck, he writes that, Nazim was dark and elfin in a tracksuit and baseball cap. Ruslan was plump in a sheepskin coat. Albert, a rangy youth, had a horn-handled knife hanging from his belt.” 
As Parfitt strides westward, he guides the reader through a complicated web of religious fault lines and ethnic groups that begin with the quasi-independent Abkhaz on the tropical Black Sea coast and end with the Avars and Laks of Dagestan by the Caspian Sea. 
Throughout, he manages to convey the physical strains and navigational challenges with a lightness of touch and self-deprecation that bely the single-mindedness required for such an endeavor. 
On another level, though, High Caucasus” is an ambitious attempt to grapple with issues far more significant than a walker’s aching limbs or chance encounters on high mountain passes. It’s an exploration of how to live with the legacy of horrific violence, brooding evil and impossible decisions made in moments of crisis. 
Inevitably, the brutality inflicted by Russian forces on Chechnya during its two post-Soviet wars for independence looms large. But Parfitt also passes through the former lands of the Circassians, exterminated by the Russian Empire in the 19th century; follows in the footsteps of Dagestan-born rebel leader Imam Shamil; and talks to survivors of Stalin’s wartime deportation of entire ethnic groups. At one point, his walk is interrupted when his editors in London send him to cover the outbreak of a short-lived war in South Ossetia. 
In the North Caucasus, as in many places, everything is fine until the moment it isn’t,” he writes. Much of the violence came in spasms, cordoned off or conducted in darkness, short and quickly curtailed. In between, people went to work and raised families and did their shopping, just as they did anywhere else in Russia.” 
In addition to using his solo traveling to try and understand — and perhaps come to terms with — the consequences of conflict, Parfitt draws on two decades of reporting in Russia and his upbringing in rural England, as well as personal stories involving family, friends, relationships and parenthood. 
Walking through Beslan several years after the siege in which hundreds of children were killed, he reflects on how his mother lost access to her own children from a first marriage. It seems trivial, perhaps, to compare my mother’s experience to that of a parent whose child is kidnapped by terrorists,” Parfitt writes. But that is the point: most of us don’t have the tools to measure such anguish. How would we behave? How much could we withstand?” 
This is not to say that High Caucasus” is a book overwhelmed by tragedy. 
The themes of grief and healing seem in sync with the breath-taking landscape of forests, high passes and steppe. And Parfitt has an eye for self-effacing humor, delivering occasional laugh-out-loud moments — like when he thinks the sound of his stubble on his sleeping bag is a hungry bear, or when a frightened shepherd boy takes him for an Islamic militant. 
Because Parfitt’s walk occurred over fifteen years ago, it means he is free to write with introspection and the benefit of hindsight – reminiscent of travel writer Patrick Leigh Fermor’s famous trilogy about walking through 1930s Europe that was penned decades after World War II had destroyed much of what he observed. 
And, in places, it means Parfitt conjures a Russia that, amid ever-growing authoritarianism and the Ukraine war, now feels like a lost world. 
It’s difficult to imagine the security services today allowing a journalist to complete such a walk – let alone a Western journalist in a sensitive border region cheerfully knocking on the doors of an FSB border guard base (as Parfitt does at one point). 
Parfitt’s writing is imbued with a gentle sadness, but High Caucasus” resists the urge to romanticize its subjects and never slips into melancholy or irrelevance. 
As Russia inflicts daily death and destruction on Ukraine, Parfitt’s exploration of how to live with a history of violence and loss is achingly topical. 
"High Caucasus. A Mountain Quest in Russia's Haunted Hinterland" 
Deportation of the Karachays 
Uchkulan lay across a bridge at the foot of the hill. There was a dirt square with no one in it save for two old men in trilbies sitting on a bench in the lee of a house. They called out a greeting. One of them introduced himself as Seypul. He was swigging from a bottle of cheap port. ‘Sit with us a while,’ he said, pouring me a drink in a plastic cup that he produced from his pocket. I took a seat on the bench; the space between it and the house was knee deep in empty port bottles. ‘We sit here every day,’ said Seypul, by way of explanation. ‘I’m a pensioner.’ 
We got talking about the deportations in 1943. When Seypul said he was seventy-three years old, I realized he was speaking from personal experience. ‘Come and stay the night at mine,’ he said. ‘I’ll tell you the whole story.’ 
It was not late in the day, and I could easily have pushed on. But these were the kind of meetings I craved, to help me peel back another layer of understanding. I accepted immediately. 
On the way to Seypul’s house, we dropped in at the local shop and I bought some chocolates as a gift for his family and a bottle of port for him. ‘Maybe, um, maybe we’ll just get a second one?’ he enquired politely. ‘Of course,’ I said, and bought another. 
Seypul puffed and wheezed as he led the way to his home. The roofs of the houses in his lane were crested with aluminium fret-work; his own was decorated with silhouettes of deer and eagles. Between the houses on the lane, facing onto the street, were little enclosures made from planks: for livestock, it seemed, although none was occupied. Each home had high gates with a yard behind. Two single-storey buildings stood in Seypul’s yard: one for him, his wife and his younger, unmarried son; the other for his elder son and wife. There was a barn with a hayloft, a shed with a cow inside and a garage for his old Volga car, its bonnet coated in dust. 
In the kitchen sat Seypul’s wife, Asya, in the uniform of women her age: print dress and headscarf. She welcomed me but kept in the background, tending their latest grandchild, a baby boy wrapped in swaddling cloths. Two little girls, also grandchildren, flitted in and out, giggling. 
Evening had come. Asya served us soup and ayran, and Seypul switched on an old television. The end of a Michael Caine movie fuzzed the screen, the actor’s Cockney strains rising occasionally above the hubbub of Russian translation. Seypul poured us glasses of the port, which tasted like alcoholic cough syrup. When the film was finished, he cleared his throat and said: ‘The Germans came in the autumn of forty-two.’ He had begun his story. 
The Nazis, I knew, had invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941, and by August of the following year, they were already in the Caucasus. ‘They didn’t kill anyone, not a single Karachay,’ said Seypul. ‘They blew up the bridges when they left, but they didn’t touch us. They billeted in the school, stood their guns together and got to work. They built roads. The officers were all Germans, but a lot of the ordinary soldiers were Romanians. They had harmonicas, which they played to us children. I was seven years old.’ 
To some highlanders, run ragged by Communist attempts to collectivize their precious livestock, the invading force had appeared to offer a different way of life. Seypul passed a hand across his ruddy face. ‘My father was a carpenter,’ he said. ‘The Germans asked him to work for them, but Father refused. He was illiterate but he was a clever man. When an officer came looking for him, he made himself scarce for the day. He knew that Soviet power would be vengeful. He was right. When the Germans left in 1943 and the Soviets returned, they executed a lot of people. They killed an old man just for wearing a worn-out coat the Germans had given him out of pity.’ Seypul wiped his mouth. ‘Fucking bastards. An old man. For what?’ 
The sympathy of some Karachays towards the invading Germans had been, in Stalin’s eyes, a treachery that tainted the entire nation. In November of 1943, a cohort of troops from the NKVD secret police arrived in Uchkulan. ‘For three days, they sat around their fires at night,’ Seypul recalled. ‘A group of them came to our home. My brother was away with the Red Army, fighting in Ukraine. The troops read a letter that he had sent home, and then they checked for weapons and took the sharp knives from the cupboard. They told us we were being deported.’ 
Soon, the villagers were ordered out of their houses and loaded into Studebaker trucks. These were American vehicles given to the Soviet Union under the US lend-lease programme to help fight the Nazis – now deployed in this vile act of domestic tyranny. Similar scenes were playing out across the mountains of Karachay: every family being wrenched from every home; seventy thousand people on the move. 
‘There were seven families in our truck,’ Seypul went on. ‘We left everything behind. I still remember the numbers: seventy- three goats, twenty-four sheep, two horses, one donkey. All the potatoes. Our house. They let my father take only his tools.’ 
Could he really recall such details? I felt sure these numbers were true, but most likely they had been passed down from parents to children. The deportation was a moment of immense trauma in the history of the Karachay people. For a tiny ethnic group like this, a droplet in Russia’s ocean of 140 million citizens, the crusade against forgetting was one way of affirming nationhood. 
At a train station, the Karachays from Uchkulan were loaded into cattle wagons. It was very cramped. They were given no food. People shared what little they had managed to take with them. ‘We travelled for seventeen days in the carriages,’ said Seypul. ‘We passed through Stalingrad, in ruins. I saw Soviet soldiers with machine guns guarding captured Germans. It was very cold. The prisoners wore scarves around their heads. My sisters had dressed me in their extra clothes, several layers, so they didn’t have to carry them.’ 
There were no toilets in the wagons, he said. Some of the men managed to punch holes through the floor so people could relieve themselves. A stench filled the trains. The old and infirm began to die. At occasional stops, the doors were thrown open and guards distributed meagre rations. The dead were removed and left by the tracks. 
Finally, the train stopped and the Karachays got out. ‘We didn’t know where we were,’ said Seypul. ‘There were people everywhere with faces like monkeys. Later, someone told us we were in Frunze, in Kyrgyzstan.’ 
Monkeys? Ah, he meant the Kyrgyz. I bit my lip. 
Seypul’s family was put together in one room: him, his parents, his three brothers and two sisters. ‘It was very hard,’ he said, topping up our glasses. ‘There were many of us Karachays living in squalor. In the beginning, six or seven people died every day, from hunger, from disease. My father made their coffins. The Kyrgyz treated us as if we were cannibals. Things got a little better when we started to get some corn. Eventually, my father found work. He saved money and bought us an old cottage.’ 
The family’s fate was repeated for thousands of others in the months to come. The Karachays were only the first to be deported. In February and March 1944, the Balkars, Ingush and Chechens would be sent away in the same fashion. There was no promise of when, if ever, they would be allowed back. They went into exile believing they might never see their homes again. 
‘It was Stalin, the serpent. He was to blame,’ said Seypul. ‘And Beria, the bastard. They scattered us like seeds all over Central Asia. ‘Stalin wanted to create a greater Georgia. After we were deported, Svans and Georgians came over the mountains and occupied our homes. The Georgians kept pigs here. They burned down our mosque. They brought gravestones by aeroplane from Georgia. Gravestones with Georgian inscriptions on them. They placed them over the graves of our ancestors. They wanted to pretend they had always been here. But they ran away when they heard we were returning.’ 
How much of this was true and how much embroidery, I didn’t know, but the fact that Seypul felt fury was beyond doubt. He was shaking at the memory of it. 
‘My people were finally allowed back in 1957,’ he said. ‘I came home to Uchkulan in 1960 – to the village where I was born – after I finished my military service in Azerbaijan. Karachays had begun serving in the army again in 1955.’ 
‘And your parents?’ I was afraid to hear the answer. 
‘They came back, too.’ He gave a smile. ‘They made it home.’ I felt relief for these people I’d never known. And then? 
‘I found a job as an ambulance driver. I got married. Later, I worked for the local administration. All my life, I worked here in Uchkulan as a driver. Now I’m retired. I walk down the road. I sit on the bench. I drink a little. The port helps my high blood pressure.’ 
Besides the two sons, he and Asya had five daughters, all married. ‘You are a great survivor and you’ve had a successful life,’ I said. 
‘Yes,’ said Seypul, rubbing the stubble on his cheek as if he had never contemplated the question. ‘I suppose you are right.’ And we opened the second bottle of port. 
PODOLSK, Moscow region – Residents across Russia affected by unprecedented winter heating outages in recent days have expressed their growing frustration and urged local authorities to restore heating in their homes. 
In Podolsk, a town some 30 kilometers south of the capital Moscow, at least 149,000 residents — nearly half of its population — were left in the cold when a heating main burst at a nearby private ammunition plant. 
It’s a total disgrace. There is no heating and no hot water. We have to sleep in sleeping bags,” Yuri, a local resident, told The Moscow Times. 
I have no words to describe how bad the situation is," said Yuri, who declined to provide his surname. "We have had no heating for almost six days." 
The Moscow region, where temperatures have plunged to as low as minus 20 degrees Celsius in the past week, as well as the Far East Primorye region, the cities of Moscow and St. Petersburg, Penza, the southern Voronezh and Volgograd regions and others, have all been affected by heating outages this winter. 
In the Tver region, a group of residents filmed an appeal to President Vladimir Putin, saying that they are freezing from the cold” in the village of Novozavidovsky. 
We're literally being killed by the cold,” a woman in the video said, adding that they have been sending requests to local authorities since September after their houses were connected to a boiler room whose power was reportedly insufficient. 
This is some kind of torture and extermination of the population 100 kilometers from Moscow,” she added. 
Residents of the Moscow region town of Elektrostal lit a fire in the street to draw the authorities’ attention to the heating problem. 
It’s impossible to stay in our houses. We're freezing!” a group of women in the video said. 
Suffering from subzero temperatures, residents are placing the blame on local authorities and utility services for failing to take necessary precautions and not taking action to resolve the situation. 
We are sending complaints everywhere but no one listens to us. We have portable heaters working in every room, but the temperature inside is still 10 degrees Celsius,” Yelena from Podolsk said. 
There is a clinic and a hospital, as well as kindergartens, where there is no heating. And we have no answers, no assistance, no explanation,” Yelena added. 
Placing the blame 
Podolsk authorities opened temporary heating centers and declared a state of emergency. 
Local authorities linked the heating problems to the fact that the town is heated by a boiler plant owned by the Klimovsk Specialized Ammunition Plant, a private ammunition factory and one of the largest weapon cartridge production enterprises in the country. 
The facility is under tight security conditions, which limits our ability to oversee winter preparations,” the Moscow region’s Vice Governor Yevgeny Khromushin said last week. We were unaware of the problem for nearly a day.” 
An unidentified Moscow region official and two senior executives at the plant were arrested on suspicion of providing unsafe services, Russia’s Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes, said Tuesday. 
Investigators said that Podolsk’s deputy mayor was accused of misusing authority by issuing a readiness certificate for the boiler house at the plant. 
In the neighboring Tver region, authorities opened a criminal case over the laundering of over 84 million rubles ($938,993) in residents' heating bills, the Astra Telegram channel reported this week, citing unidentified sources. Investigators claim the heads of the local water intake and boiler house misappropriated the payments for personal use. 
Reacting to the heating failures, Putin on Tuesday asked Emergency Situations Minister Alexander Kurenkov to provide heat and electricity to the affected residents. 
The outages appear to be the latest effect of several decades of crumbling infrastructure, which has been linked to endemic corruption and mismanagement. 
The overall decay of Russia's municipal infrastructure surpassed 70% in 2022, the pro-Kremlin newspaper Izvestia reported. 
According to Sergei Pakhomov, head of the State Duma’s Construction, Housing and Utilities Committee, water pipes that were 90 years old or even older were still in use as recently as two years ago in some cases. 
Housing, utilities and communal services are a common source of problems for Russians during the winter. 
In St. Petersburg, extensive ice coverage on city streets and sidewalks is a chronic source of complaints, with many people ending up in the hospital over the years due to slipping and falling accidents. 
In the Siberian republic of Khakassia, two villages were left without electricity last month due to apparent issues with outdated infrastructure. 
In the winter of 2020, five people in the Perm region were killed after a pipe burst. 
When asked about the latest heating outages, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov acknowledged the problems and linked them to poor municipal infrastructure, saying that people had to endure a lot of inconvenience in the cold and without electricity.” 
"Despite all the titanic efforts to update all housing and communal services systems, there's still a certain part that remains considerably deteriorated. These programs will continue, but it is impossible to update all pipes and all housing and communal services systems in 10-15 years,” Peskov said. 
As for now, those affected by heating issues appear to lack optimism that the problems will be solved efficiently. 
"It's been a week since we've had heating, and the temperature in my apartment is around 11 degrees Celsius,” Podolsk resident Lidiya told The Moscow Times. 
Unfortunately, no one knows when it will be repaired,” she said. 
Traffic along the Trans-Siberian Railway was partially disrupted on Friday after a cargo train flew off the tracks, crashing into trees and setting a nearby forest on fire, the local rail operator said. 
A total of 29 cars carrying coal were derailed at 2:30 p.m. local time in Far East Russia’s Amur region, causing damage to electrical lines, police investigators said, adding that no one was injured in the incident. 
Railway traffic is temporarily suspended along the stretch,” the local subsidiary of the state-owned Russian Railways said, referring to route between the villages of Seletkan and Ledyanaya, around 170 kilometers north of the regional capital Blagoveshchensk. 
A video posted to social media showed upturned train cars, as well as a nearby forest burning in smoke and flames. 
Police launched a criminal investigation into safety violations and said they were looking into the cause of the derailment. Authorities did not say whether they suspected foul play was to blame. 
With its new agreement, the JIT has shown it is serious about bringing the culprits to justice. 
Three years after Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 was downed over eastern Ukraine, the Joint Investigation Team (JIT), comprised of Australia, Belgium, Malaysia, the Netherlands and Ukraine, announced its decision on July 5 to begin investigations and prosecutions in the Netherlands. 
This development is not surprising given that most of the victims were Dutch and that the Netherlands has led the JIT investigation into the crash so far. 
It also shows the determination of the JIT states to bring those responsible to justice, particularly after Russia vetoed an attempt to establish an ad hoc international tribunal in the UN Security Council in July 2015. 
Courts in the Netherlands will now be able to investigate and prosecute those responsible for the downing of MH17 on the basis of four legal sources. 
First, under the Dutch penal code. Second, under the Dutch International Crimes Act of 2003. Third, on the basis of the 1971 Montreal Convention, which allows the domestic prosecution of anyone who has committed unlawful acts against the safety of civil aviation. And, finally, under the judicial cooperation agreement signed with Ukraine on July 7. 
The treaty allows MH17 suspects to be prosecuted in the Netherlands in respect of all 298 victims, who originated from 17 different countries. This means all next of kin will have the same rights in the Dutch proceedings, regardless of nationality. 
So why can the Netherlands exercise criminal jurisdiction in this case, if the incident occurred in Ukraine? 
Ukraine could lead the investigation, but the country’s leadership has said it would be difficult because of the ongoing conflict in Donbass where the downing took place. 
This is why Kiev triggered the International Criminal Court (ICC)’s jurisdiction over crimes allegedly committed on its territory from Feb. 20, 2014, onwards. The ICC Prosecutor is currently doing a preliminary examination over alleged crimes committed on the territory of Ukraine. This process could lead to the opening of a criminal investigation by the Court, which could potentially include the downing of MH17 as a war crime. 
A Series of Obstacles 
However, using multiple criminal prosecution mechanisms at the same time, the Dutch domestic courts and the ICC, could be problematic. 
First, under the basic principle of ‘ne bis in idem,’ no person can be tried twice for the same crime. If a Dutch court prosecutes a suspect, it may prevent the ICC from prosecuting the same person for the same crime. 
When it comes to gathering evidence, selecting suspects and conducting trials, the JIT will have to coordinate with the ICC to avoid duplication and wasting resources. 
As a possible solution, a division of labor between the jurisdictions and among the actors involved could be arranged. For example, the ICC could decide to prosecute those most responsible for the incident, or leave the case to be tried in the Netherlands. 
There are also other challenges. It will be difficult to meet the high standards of proof required for establishing suspects’ guilt beyond reasonable doubt, including proving the suspects ‘knowledge and intent’ for an alleged war crime. 
There will be procedural obstacles when it comes to cooperation and sharing crucial evidence. Clear examples of this are the thousands of intercepted telephone calls gathered by Ukrainian law enforcement and intelligence agencies. 
Some of this evidence can be shared with JIT investigators, the ICC and the Dutch prosecutors. But in some cases, much of this data cannot be shared due to some restrictions in the Ukrainian legal system. 
This is the case, for example, with evidence that may have been acquired or intercepted during special legal procedures into the downing of the MH17, including investigations carried out in the interest of state security. 
The bilateral agreement between the Netherlands and Ukraine addresses some of these issues by reducing or simplifying some procedural hurdles — the treaty allows the examination of Ukrainian defendants via video link or the transferring of enforcement of prison sentences that may be imposed, due to extradition restrictions in the Ukrainian Constitution. 
Finally, a major obstacle is how to obtain custody of the potential suspects, particularly if they are located on Russian soil. It is unlikely Russia will extradite potential Russian suspects, in spite of international pressure, in light of the region’s current geopolitical tensions. 
In this case, trials in absentia, where the suspect is absent from the legal proceedings, could prove to be a limited, yet practical, solution. 
Regardless of these challenges, the decision to initiate prosecutions in the Netherlands, adding another layer of available legal redress for the incident, should be welcomed. 
It shows that the JIT states are serious about seeking justice for the victims of this tragic incident and their relatives. 
Aaron Matta is an expert in international law with working experience at International Courts. He also recently co-founded The Hague Council on Advancing International Justice, a network for and with practitioners, academics, and policymakers in the area of international justice. 
The views and opinions expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
There's nothing like a good history lesson. Unless, that is, President Vladimir Putin is the person giving the lesson, and he's using it to justify why he launched a war against Ukraine. 
But Putin, eager as always to don his historian cap and Kremlinsplain away the invasion, gave U.S. conservative pundit Tucker Carlson the kind of history lesson he might not have expected when he decided to travel thousands of miles to Moscow to get inside the Russian leader's head. 
In his interview with Carlson, which premiered Friday, Putin went through the tired, grievance-filled historical narrative that he has regularly invoked since the start of the war nearly two years ago. He talked about everything from the founding of the Ryurik dynasty in 862 AD and the baptism of Rus in 988 AD, to the time when Soviet dictator Josef Stalin allegedly "artificially" created the Ukrainian state and then the break-up of the U.S.S.R. in the early 1990s. 
There was a lot to take in. And of course, not everyone has the time or patience to watch the full interview. But you'll probably have a minute to spare for some memes about the interview, right? 
Here's a look at some of our favorite memes about the interview: 
While U.S. audiences were able to watch the premiere of Carlson's interview with Putin at the reasonable hour of 6:00 p.m. Eastern Standard Time, people living in Moscow were forced to stay up until 2:00 a.m. to catch the release. 
Just hours before the interview premiered, Carlson teased his two-hour talk with Putin by posting this still frame on Instagram. And the internet was instantly drawn to one thing: Putin's pants, which are clearly saying the tide is coming in. 
"I would have started with this question," blogger Uliana Yapparova wrote. 
"Who chooses your pants?" Carlson asks the Russian president. 
Russian comedian Anton Pikuli writes here: "Tucker Carlson's interview with Putin be like..." 
"Mister Putin, why did you attack Ukraine?" 
"Carlson, my dear boy, did you know that in the year 862 Rurik..." 
Many of our readers will likely have heard the famous quote often attributed to Tsar Alexander III. It goes: "Russia has only two allies: the army and the navy." 
But had the long-deceased ruler been alive today, maybe he would have said this instead: 
"Russia has only two allies: Twix the cat and Tucker Carlson." 
In case you're not in the loop, the pet cat named Twix was thrown from a train car by a railroad employee last month and ultimately froze to death, which caused an uproar on social media. We wrote about the hapless feline here: 
British comedian Philomena Cunk (pictured below) once asked a historian: "What is the Soviet Onion?" 
We can only fantasize about what Cunk would have asked Putin if she had the opportunity to interview him. So let your imagination run wild. 
Indeed, one has to wonder why Putin chose to trace history back only to the Middle Ages when explaining why he invaded Ukraine in 2022. He very well could have gone back to the creation of our solar system, or the Big Bang. 
Russia’s Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media said Friday that two-thirds of tech workers who left the country after Moscow’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine in 2022 have returned. 
Over the past year, we have not observed an outflow of IT specialists,” the ministry said in a statement, which appeared to have been issued in response to media reports about increased demand among Russian tech workers to relocate to Europe. 
According to that report, published on Friday by the Kommersant business daily, the immigration consultancy firm Garant In saw a 233% spike in demand for European residency permits among Russian tech workers between January and March 2024. 
Around half of our residency permit inquiries come from IT specialists,” Garant In CEO Andrei Boyko told Kommersant. 
According to Boyko, France accounts for 80% of all inquiries, which he links to the country’s relaxed residency and investment rules at a time when other EU members are shuttering residency programs for Russian tech workers. 
Russia’s Communications Ministry, meanwhile, said that the number of tech workers in the country had increased by 13% last year, totaling around 857,000 workers in 2023. 
Overall, the IT industry is one of the fastest-growing sectors of the Russian economy. All economic indicators of the industry show double-digit growth,” the ministry said. 
The Russian government has introduced a number of incentives and state support programs to lure back tech workers who fled the country either in opposition to the war in Ukraine or to avoid being drafted into the army. 
Weakened by poison and fearing for his life, the jailed Kremlin critic’s fate is tied to the fraught diplomacy between Russia, the U.K. and the U.S. 
Jailed Kremlin critic Vladimir Kara-Murza’s new charges that could extend his 25-year prison sentence even further have brought the fight to free him from Russian prison back into focus. 
But while Kara-Murza’s family and colleagues push for his release via a prisoner exchange, wider diplomatic dynamics risk hampering their efforts. 
Kara-Murza, 42, a critic of the invasion of Ukraine, was convicted last year of treason and other charges that he denies and has been held in a punishment cell in a Siberian penal colony since January. 
His family says his health has deteriorated in prison due to a nerve condition resulting from the two poisoning attempts he survived in the 2010s. The death of fellow dissident Alexei Navalny in an Arctic prison in February intensified fears for Kara-Murza’s condition. 
The opposition politician and journalist now faces charges of failing to add a label indicating his ”foreign agent” status to his social media pages. 
Though the charges are punishable with a fine, his wife Evgenia Kara-Murza said that she expects the courts to rule to extend his prison term — already the harshest sentence handed to a political prisoner since the fall of the Soviet Union. 
Last month, U.S. lawmakers joined calls for President Joe Biden to declare Kara-Murza unlawfully and wrongfully detained,” a designation granted to jailed U.S. citizens Evan Gershkovich and Paul Whelan. 
Kara-Murza’s U.S. Permanent Resident status meets the requirements for a swap by Washington. But Washington has yet to use this power for him. 
As he holds British and Russian passports, he could be swapped by London if the Washington route is blocked. Yet the British Foreign Office (FCDO), which has a firm embargo on prisoner exchanges, already ruled out a swap for Kara-Murza in February, a position that remains unchanged despite the new charges against him. 
In response to The Moscow Times’ request for comment on Friday, a spokesperson for the British Embassy in Moscow reiterated the U.K. Foreign Secretary’s statement expressing outrage and calling again for Kara-Murza’s release. 
Hostage negotiation is a confidential and often controversial policy area, as shown during last year’s exchange of U.S. basketball star Brittney Griner for Russian arms dealer Viktor Bout. 
The trade will only embolden Vladimir Putin to continue his evil practice of taking innocent Americans hostage for use as political pawns,” ex-U.S. Ambassador to Moscow Michael McFaul said at the time. 
Others argued that negotiating directly with hostile states is often the only way to extract political prisoners. 
It’s a terrible choice to have to make but in the end, I come down on the side of releasing her, or getting her out of a Russian penal colony,” U.S. Senator John Cornyn (R-TX) said. 
While U.S. prisoner swaps are enabled by a law known as The Levinson Act, Britain lacks similar legislation. 
The Levinson Act is a very specific piece of legislation,” a British MP said. We do not have the same powers on prisoner swaps — we just do not have that in our legislation.” 
With prisoner swaps off the table and ransoms frowned upon, the FCDO has to rely on diplomatic leverage to rescue political prisoners. 
We have set up a cross-team task force of officials from diplomatic, consular, sanctions and communications teams to consider and implement a range of levers designed to put pressure on the Russian regime,” a spokesperson for the FCDO’s Department of Complex Consular and Crisis Management told The Moscow Times via email. 
After a two-year wait, U.K. Foreign Secretary David Cameron met Kara-Murza’s mother Elena Gordon and wife Evgenia on March 1. As they met, Navalny was being laid to rest in a Moscow cemetery. 
Evgenia said she was very grateful” for the conversation, but later told The Guardian: Whether governments engage or not, the number of hostages and political prisoners is on the rise. The message they are sending is that if you end up arrested, it is your fault. Democratic nations are supposed to fight for their citizens." 
Evgenia Kara-Murza did not respond to a request for comment. 
The British ambassador to Moscow raised Kara-Murza’s case with Russia’s first deputy foreign minister in January, the FCDO spokesperson told The Moscow Times. 
Our Deputy Head of Mission has raised it again on several occasions with senior officials in the Russian Foreign Ministry, most recently on 19 March,” the spokesperson added. 
The FCDO stressed the importance of career diplomats Barbara Woodward, the British ambassador to the United Nations, and her Russian counterpart Vasily Nebenza in these talks. 
Last summer, Woodward told The Independent that she had only spoken with Nebenza twice since the start of the war. Both times were to plead for Kara-Murza’s release. 
A negotiated release could thus hinge on talks between a pair of diplomats whose working relationship has otherwise collapsed. Tit-for-tat diplomatic expulsions and incompatible positions on Russia’s war in Ukraine have made it much harder for Russian and Western diplomats to have the informal dialogues that were possible pre-war. 
Lord Ahmad of Wimbledon hinted at a new development in February, telling the House of Lords that officials would continue to raise Kara-Murza’s case with countries with direct influence over Russia.” 
The FCDO confirmed to The Moscow Times that talks are happening in multilateral fora” but declined to specify which countries are involved. 
Third-party countries, particularly the Gulf Arab states, are playing a growing role in high-level prisoner exchanges. The UAE and Saudi Arabia reportedly facilitated the Bout-Griner trade, while Qatar has helped to free kidnapped Ukrainian children from Russia and Israeli hostages from Hamas. 
Time is not on Kara Murza’s side, and his wife fears he is at risk of dying in prison due to deliberate abuse. 
The Kremlin has repeatedly refused to allow Kara-Murza consular access to an independent doctor. Moscow’s Ambassador to London said these requests could only be decided by a Russian court and did not take Kara-Murza’s dual citizenship into account on this issue. 
A change in administration in Whitehall could cause more delays. The Labour Party is widely expected to win the next U.K. election this fall due to discontent at 14 years of Tory rule, bringing in a new foreign secretary. 
Evgenia Kara-Murza has been critical of the conveyor belt of foreign secretaries over the past two years. 
There was Liz Truss and James Cleverly and then was there someone else? I forget. And we only now finally get a meeting with Lord Cameron,” she told The Guardian in March. 
It remains unclear whether the same officials would remain on Kara-Murza’s case in the event of a Labour victory. The FCDO did not answer this question. 
It appears that talks are already taking place in parallel. Shadow Foreign Secretary David Lammy of the Labour Party met Evgenia during her last visit to London. 
A spokesperson for the Shadow Foreign Cabinet declined to comment on those talks when contacted by The Moscow Times. 
The U.S. has taken a different approach. In 2020, the Trump administration appointed Roger Carstens as Special Envoy for Hostage Affairs, a position he still holds despite the change in administrations. Castens is directly responsible for the cases of Whelan and Gershkovich, but not Kara-Murza. 
Continuity in policy is critical, both in the mission to ensure hostages return home and in caring for their fragile families,” Jason Rezaian, a journalist and former prisoner in Iran, wrote when calling for the Biden administration to keep Carstens. 
The ordeal to free Kara-Murza recalls that of Nazanin Zaghari-Ratcliffe, a British-Iranian national jailed by Iran on false espionage charges. It took the FCDO six years and five foreign secretaries to free her, with successive administrations accused of restarting the case from scratch. 
Prisoners’ families can play a crucial role in negotiations. Special Envoy Carstens noted in an interview that relatives often come up with the winning strategies themselves. 
In Zaghari-Ratcliffe’s case, it was pressure from her husband that eventually pushed U.K. officials to change their policy. Richard Ratcliffe camped outside the Foreign Office and went on a hunger strike to protest the treatment of his wife. 
London eventually secured Zaghari-Ratcliffe’s 2022 release by paying a backdated 400-million-pound ($508 million) debt to Iran, which then-Foreign Secretary Liz Truss described as a parallel issue.” 
Evgenia Kara-Murza, who hasn’t spoken to her husband since last summer, said she refuses to give up on her fight to free him. 
I have fought by my husband’s side for many years. And I have seen him twice in a coma, looking like an octopus with tubes coming out of his body because none of his major organs worked. I will stand by his side for as long as it takes,” she said. 
This war has been fought not only on the battlefield — both inside Russia and abroad, Kremlin propaganda pushes its agenda 24/7. 
Independent Russian journalists have been jailed, fined, and forced out of the country for telling the truth about the war. Amsterdam has become a significant hub for Russian journalists in exile. 
With no end in sight to this devastating war, what is the future of Russian journalism in exile? And what does the future hold for the war? 
Revisit The Moscow Times' sold-out event dedicated to exploring these questions, featuring a keynote address by Amsterdam Mayor Femke Halsema and conversations with Ukrainian-Russian filmmaker Alexander Rodnyansky and his son, Ukrainian presidential adviser Alexander Rodnyansky Jr.; former Channel One journalist Marina Ovsyannikova; and British investigative journalist John Sweeney. 
Moderated by Dutch journalist and television presenter Twan Huys. 
Amsterdam Mayor Femke Halsema gave a touching address in support of Evan Gershkovich, our former colleague who has been unjustly held in Russian prison since March 2023. 
Ukrainian-Russian filmmaker Alexander Rodnyansky and his son, Ukrainian presidential adviser Alexander Rodnyansky Jr., spoke about the current reality of the war from Ukraine's perspective alongside The Moscow Times' founder Derk Sauer. 
Marina Ovsyannikova, a former journalist for Russian state broadcaster Channel One, discussed how her now-famous protest against the war on live television has changed her life and her work. 
British journalist John Sweeney discussed his work covering the war from Kyiv and recounted how his doorstepping of Putin in 2014 nearly ended in disaster. 
The Moscow Times' publisher Alexander Gubsky, The Guardian's Russia and Ukraine correspondent Pjotr Sauer and TV Rain anchor Mikhail Fishman spoke about the dilemmas faced by independent Russian journalists in exile as Russia becomes increasingly repressive and global attention toward the war fades. 
The United States on Thursday finally joined a growing number of its NATO allies in allowing Ukraine to use weapons donated by the West to strike military targets on Russian territory. 
Officials said Ukraine would only be allowed to defend the embattled Kharkiv region, which is under bombardment by missiles and glide bombs launched inside Russia. Furthermore, an anonymous official explained Kyiv would only be able to hit Russian forces hitting them or preparing to hit them” close to the border. 
Though Volodymyr Zelensky’s spokesman welcomed the move, the Ukrainian president himself was more critical, saying the delay allowed Russia to hunt” Ukrainian people from relative safety behind the border. He urged Washington to allow Kyiv to strike deeper into its neighbor’s territory. 
Why did these restrictions need to be lifted? 
Kharkiv lies just 40 kilometers from the Russian border, putting it in range of missile and glide bombs launched from Russia’s territory. At least 25 people have been killed by glide bombs – which can fly up to 60 kilometers after being dropped in Russian airspace – in the city over the past week. 
Without permission to fire back, Kyiv was left unable to target Russian forces as they gathered behind the border and readied their renewed offensive on the Kharkiv region, said Ivan Stupak, a Ukrainian military expert and reserve officer in Ukraine’s SBU security service. 
Unfortunately, this precaution costs human lives and territory,” he told The Moscow Times. 
And with Ukraine’s air defenses having been exhausted while waiting for the long-delayed approval and arrival of surface-to-air missiles from the U.S., Moscow’s airborne attacks became increasingly devastating as fewer missiles could be intercepted. 
Serhii Kuzan, chairman of the Ukrainian Security and Cooperation Center, told The Moscow Times that allowing Kyiv to strike aircraft and ground launchers inside Russian territory is a more cost-effective way of saving lives than intercepting bombs and missiles. 
Russia can still produce dozens of missiles of various types every month, but it cannot produce a similar number of launchers,” he said. 
It is much more efficient to use a SAM missile, which costs several million dollars, to destroy a strategic bomber, which costs tens of millions and is, in Russian reality, an irreparable loss.” 
What can’t Ukraine do in Russia? 
Ukraine has already been using domestically produced drones to hit military targets as well as oil refineries, factories, and power infrastructure as deep into Russia as the republic of Tatarstan. 
Despite its latest easing of restrictions on weapons usage, the U.S. will still prohibit the use of ATACMS missiles on Russian territory, a U.S. official told the BBC. 
Central to the danger of ATACMS is their design, which enables them to overcome obstacles that a simple drone could not. [Unlike a drone] ATACMS missiles have a GPS guidance and they also have inertial guidance,” says Ryan McBeth, retired army infantry veteran and open-source intelligence expert. You can get very precision-like hits on Russian factories and production centers without dealing with the kind of GPS jamming that's going on at the front.” 
According to McBeth, the angle at which ATACMS missiles are launched and their ability to maneuver themselves in the air, unlike traditional ballistic missiles, makes them more challenging for Russian air defense systems to intercept and neutralize. 
Additionally, the unfavorable positioning of Russia’s own defense systems could make it harder for its surface-to-air missile launchers to catch up with the attacking missile. 
If Washington were to someday allow Kyiv to use ATACMS inside Russia, McBeth told The Moscow Times that the threat ATACMS would pose would likely compel Russia to develop new strategies and logistical planning from Russian commanders. 
Why has Washington been so cautious? 
Moscow has repeatedly warned that using Western weapons on Russian soil would escalate the war. This week, President Vladimir Putin warned that such a move would be another step towards a serious conflict in Europe. Towards a global conflict.” 
If Russia was to attack a member of NATO, it would trigger Article 5 of the alliance’s founding treaty — compelling other member states to defend them and bringing them into direct confrontation with Russia. 
However, analysts have argued that Ukraine’s allies have already crossed many of Russia’s red lines without triggering a significant escalation. Ukraine has used British-donated Storm Shadow and American ATACMS against targets in Crimea and other occupied regions of Ukraine that Moscow considers Russian territory. 
What are other countries doing? 
Washington’s move came in the same week that NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg said Kyiv’s allies were tying one hand of the Ukrainian armed forces behind their back” by preventing them from hitting Russian territory. 
France, Germany, Finland, Canada, Poland, Sweden and the Czech Republic have all said they would allow Ukraine to strike targets on Russian soil in some circumstances. 
Though British Foreign Minister David Cameron said that it was up to Ukraine to decide how they used British weapons, Zelensky said Kyiv was yet to receive official confirmation from London. He added that Britain's final decision was likely dependent on Washington's stance. 
The Danish and Dutch foreign ministers said Thursday that Ukraine could use its country’s donated F-16s against military targets in Russia for self-defense within the rules of war.” The first F-16s are expected to enter service in June or July. 
With different countries laying down their own conditions, Kuzan told The Moscow Times that without a clear definition of what Kyiv’s allies consider to be a military target, it is unclear what Ukraine can and cannot do. 
For example, is it permissible to attack a military facility that services critical components of the Russian Iskander missile system, which could be used to fire ballistic missiles at civilians in Kharkiv? In practice, this facility is not involved in attacks on Ukraine. But in fact, it is. Because without maintenance, the transporter cannot be moved and missiles cannot be launched,” he said. 
This article was updated on June 1 to clarify the U.S. position of the use of ATACMS in Russia. 
Ukrainian prisoners of war were not on board the Russian Il-76 transport plane that crashed near the border with Ukraine last month, a senior Ukrainian national security official said Friday. 
Moscow claims 65 Ukrainian servicemen en route for a scheduled prisoner exchange were killed in the air disaster in southwestern Russia’s Belgorod region on Jan. 24. 
I can tell you for sure there were no Ukrainian prisoners there,” Oleksiy Danilov, secretary of Ukraine's National Security and Defense Council, told the Ukrainian news outlet Babel. 
Russia’s Investigative Committee, which probes major crimes, said last week that genetic tests of nearly 700 body fragments recovered from the crash site had unambiguously” confirmed the 65 soldiers’ identities. 
Danilov disputed that claim, telling Babel: If it was the case, believe me... they would show it all.” 
[Russia has] nothing to show, because if it really happened, there would be a completely different picture," he stressed, speculating that the evidence would be widely shared on Russian state television and by Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov at the UN. 
Moscow accuses Kyiv of using a U.S.-made Patriot surface-to-air missile system to shoot down the aircraft. 
Kyiv has neither confirmed nor denied its involvement, though it did say a prisoner exchange had been planned for the same day as the Il-76 crash. 
Ukrainian military intelligence spokesman Andriy Yusov claimed last month that Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) had ordered their military and political leadership to not board the Il-76 at the last moment. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Thursday that if Ukraine were to be admitted to NATO, it would make the world more vulnerable, after the bloc vowed closer integration with Kyiv at its summit this week. 
"I am sure that this will not increase the security of Ukraine itself, and in general will make the world much more vulnerable and lead to additional tension in the international arena," Putin said. 
Preventing Kyiv from joining the alliance was one reason President Vladimir Putin gave for launching the military operation in Ukraine. 
Putin spoke to journalists a day after a summit in Lithuania in which NATO pledged its backing for Kyiv but failed to offer it a timeline for membership. 
Kyiv has been asking for more advanced and long-range weapons, including missiles, to push back Russian forces. 
Long-range missiles "cause damage but nothing critical is happening in the combat zones where they have been used. The same goes for foreign-made tanks," Putin told journalists. 
"The delivery of new weapons will only aggravate the situation, aggravate it for the Ukrainian side and will fuel the conflict," he said. 
Ukraine's GUR military intelligence service said Thursday that its forces had used naval drones to destroy two Russian patrol boats off Moscow-annexed Crimea. 
The GUR wrote on Telegram that its Group 13 special forces unit "successfully attacked the boats of the aggressor state of Russia in temporarily occupied Crimea" using Ukrainian naval drones. 
It said that Russia used fighter planes and helicopters to try to destroy the drones in the Vuzka bay of northwest Crimea, as well as firing on them using small arms and 30 mm cannons. 
It posted video footage of a helicopter firing into the water and bright flashes of fire apparently coming from the coast, saying this did not prevent the Ukrainians from "successfully completing their combat mission." 
"As a result of the strike, two Russian boats were destroyed," the GUR said, adding that according to preliminary data, they were high-speed amphibious vessels of the KS-701 Tunets type. 
The GUR video shows footage from a drone showing it homing in on two moored boats, as well as nighttime footage of a huge explosion sending a plume of smoke up into the air. 
The KS-701 small motor boats, made in Russia, are used for coastal patrols. 
Ukraine said Russian shelling had killed a male civilian in a village in the northeast Kharkiv region Thursday and another in the southern Kherson region. 
Russia said a Ukrainian drone strike on a car carrying agricultural workers killed one person and wounded nine others in its Belgorod border region. 
Naval drones 
Moscow said earlier it had destroyed two Ukrainian naval drones "heading for Crimea" and intercepted 13 aerial drones in the southern Krasnodar region and over the Black Sea near Crimea. 
Russia also said it shot down eight tactical ATACMS missiles over the Sea of Azov, near Crimea. 
Russia's Defense Ministry later said the Black Sea fleet had destroyed four Ukrainian naval drones, without giving details. 
Faced with more than two years of Russian bombardments, Ukraine has taken the fight to Russian soil, often targeting energy infrastructure across the border. 
Separately, Russia's FSB security service said it had foiled a series of sabotage attacks planned by Ukrainian special services on railway lines in Crimea. 
The FSB said it detained four local residents recruited by Ukraine, while their leader, a Russian citizen, was killed during capture by an exploding IUD, Russian news agencies reported. 
Russian television said the agents had planned to paralyze the movement of trains so that Ukrainians could attack them with rockets. Video footage showed confiscated cartridges, an old machine gun, a pistol and a Kalashnikov. 
Ukraine's air force on Saturday said it downed nine out of 14 drones launched by Russia over southern and central regions overnight. 
Kyiv said most of the drones were directed at energy facilities in the central Dnipropetrovsk region, where thousands have been without power since Russian strikes on Friday. 
The outages have mainly affected the main city of Krivyi Rig — the home town of President Volodymyr Zelensky. 
"Ukraine destroyed nine enemy drones within the Dnipropetrovsk, Odesa, Mykolaiv and Zhytomyr regions," the air force said, adding that most of the Iranian-made Shahed drones were directed at "energy infrastructure facilities" in the Dnipropetrovsk region. 
Regional head Sergiy Lysak said 15,000 people were without electricity in the city after the drone strikes. 
He said fires caused by the strikes affected "two boiler houses" in the city and said "some families were left without water supply." 
He reported "no deaths or injuries" in the strikes but damage to two private houses. 
The head of Kryvyi Rig, Oleksandr Vilkul, said energy companies will "introduce schedules of emergency shutdowns" in the city. 
He said the city's high-speed tram will stop running and that a part of some hospitals will switch to energy generators. 
Ukraine's energy ministry said it was working to restore critical infrastructure. 
Russia has targeted Ukraine's energy infrastructure throughout its almost two-year offensive, leaving thousands of people without heat during an intense campaign last year. 
Ukraine said Wednesday it struck a Russian anti-aircraft system in the border region of Belgorod overnight, as Kyiv's attacks on Russian-controlled territory intensify. 
Since Kyiv launched its counteroffensive in June, Russian regions bordering Ukraine have accused the Ukrainian army of almost daily drone strikes and shelling. 
An unnamed source in the Ukrainian Security Service source told AFP that its forces hit a "strategic air defense system near the Russian city of Belgorod." 
It said this was the second Triumf system Ukraine had hit in the past month, after striking one in Crimea in mid-September. 
There was no mention of the attack in official reports from Russia, which said its air defenses had destroyed over 30 Ukrainian drones. 
"Air defense systems on duty over the territory of the Belgorod, Bryansk and Kursk regions intercepted and destroyed 31 Ukrainian aircraft-type unmanned aerial vehicles," Russia's Defense Ministry said. 
The governor of Bryansk, Alexander Bogomaz, said his region had been targeted by a drone attack and cluster munitions, but that there were no casualties. 
"There is partial destruction of residential households and outbuildings," he said. 
Also overnight, the Russian Defense Ministry said its air force "stopped an attempt to penetrate the territory of Crimea by a landing group of the Armed Forces of Ukraine." 
The Ukrainians had been heading "in the direction of Cape Tarkhankut on a high-speed military boat and three jet skis," it said. 
Ukraine posted video footage appearing to show what it said were several boats sailing towards Crimea, and said it "inflicted fire" on Moscow's forces. 
Ukraine has targeted Crimea throughout Russia's offensive but attacks on military installations there have recently intensified as Kyiv vows to recapture the peninsula, which Moscow annexed in 2014. 
Last month, Ukraine also launched an unprecedented missile strike on the naval headquarters on the peninsula. 
Moscow said that the attack left one Russian serviceman missing, while Kyiv claimed that the strike killed 34 officers including the fleet commander, Viktor Sokolov. 
Moscow has denied the claim and has since shown footage of the commander attending meetings. 
Ukraine said it had struck part of Russia's air defense system in annexed Crimea overnight, as Moscow said it repelled a major attempted missile strike on the peninsula on Monday. 
Kyiv has increased attacks on the Black Sea peninsula, annexed by Moscow in 2014, since it launched a counteroffensive against Russian forces earlier this year. 
"The Armed Forces successfully hit a strategic object of the air defense system on the western coast of occupied Crimea," the Ukrainian army's strategic communications unit said on social media. 
It gave no further details and Russia gave no official comment. 
Later on Monday, Russia said its air defenses had successfully shot down eight Ukrainian missiles fired at the peninsula. 
"On October 30, at around 13:00 (10:00 GMT), an attempted attack by the Kyiv regime with eight Storm Shadow cruise missiles at targets on the Crimean peninsula was stopped," Russia's Defense Ministry said. 
"As a result of air defense systems repelling the attack, all missiles were shot down," it added. 
Storm Shadows are British-supplied missile systems with a range of over 250 kilometers (155 miles) that enable Kyiv to hit targets deep behind the frontlines in the east and south of Ukraine. 
One person was injured from falling debris, the Russian-installed governor of Sevastopol said. 
Russian military bloggers had overnight reported Ukraine was stepping up its attacks on the peninsula. 
The influential Rybar Telegram channel — which is close to the Russian army — said Kyiv had launched a "combined attack." 
It alleged Ukraine had launched two U.S. ATACMS missiles which fell near the village of Olenivka, on the western coast of Crimea. 
Rybar said Russian forces were not able to down the missiles "but thanks to measures taken earlier there was no serious damage." 
The social media account alleged that "half an hour later" Black Sea Fleet sailors discovered three Ukrainian naval drones near Sevastopol. 
Rybar said one of them was "destroyed," while another two tried to enter the Bay of Khersones before being shot at and sunk by Russian forces. 
Ukraine has regularly targeted Russia's Black Sea Fleet in Crimea. 
In September, Kyiv said it had hit a symbolic army headquarters in Sevastopol. 
Kyiv on Monday accused Hungary of barring access to 11 Ukrainian prisoners of war that Russia handed over to the EU country, which has maintained ties with the Kremlin during the invasion of Ukraine. 
The Russian Orthodox Church said earlier this month that a group of Ukrainian prisoners of war from Transcarpathia — a region home to an ethnic Hungarian minority — had been transferred to Budapest. 
Around 100,000 ethnic Hungarians live in Transcarpathia in western Ukraine. 
On Monday Kyiv said Ukrainian officials have not been able to get access to the returned detainees. 
"All attempts by Ukrainian diplomats over the past few days to establish direct contact with Ukrainian citizens have not been successful," foreign ministry spokesman Oleg Nikolenko said in a statement on Facebook. 
"Essentially they are being kept in isolation," he said. 
They communicate with relatives in the presence of third parties and are denied contact with the Ukrainian embassy, Nikolenko added. 
He accused Hungary of "ignoring" Kyiv's attempts to establish dialogue. 
Nikolenko had earlier said that Kyiv had not been informed about negotiations between Hungary and Russia. 
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban's chief-of-staff Gergely Gulyas said Monday that Budapest had informed the Ukrainian authorities about the transfer after the 11 soldiers arrived in Hungary. 
"They are not considered as prisoners of war in a legal sense as they had been released in Russia, after which the Orthodox Church in cooperation with the (Hungarian) Maltese Charity Service transported them to Hungary," Gulyas told a press briefing in Budapest. 
"This conforms to both international law and practice," said Gulyas. 
"Naturally it was a special situation as they arrived here of their own free will," he added. 
"They can also leave the country freely at any time of their own free will, we do not check or monitor them, they are completely free." 
He said those among the group who did not have Hungarian citizenship had been given refugee status. 
Due to a long-running feud with Kyiv over minority rights in the Transcarpathian region, Budapest has also vowed to hold up Kyiv's efforts toward EU and NATO membership. 
Ukraine on Thursday named Valery Zaluzhny as its new envoy to the U.K., a month after he was removed from his position as the country's commander-in-chief. 
The announcement came as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky met British Secretary of State for Defense Grant Shapps. 
"On March 7, 2024, the President of Ukraine approved the candidacy of Valery Zaluzhny for the post of Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Ambassador of Ukraine to the United Kingdom," the Ukrainian foreign ministry said in a statement. 
Zelensky praised the appointment of Zaluzhny, saying "our alliance with Britain should only get stronger." 
"Zaluzhny told me that this is the direction he would like to take — diplomacy," he added. 
The popular general had led the Ukrainian army since the start of the war against Russia, pushing back a vastly more powerful invading force in the first months of the conflict. 
Dubbed the "Iron General" by Ukrainian media, Zaluzhny came to symbolize the country's resistance and enjoyed sky-high approval ratings among the public. 
But the failure of a much-vaunted counteroffensive last summer and public disagreement with Zelensky tarnished his reputation in the president's office. 
He was replaced by Oleksandr Syrsky, who commanded Ukraine's lightning autumn 2022 counteroffensive in the northeastern Kharkiv region. 
The war in Ukraine is approaching a tipping point. 
Russia’s army has struggled to make meaningful advances after months of trying, unable even to capture the ruined town of Bakhmut. A persistent inability to establish air superiority, low troop morale, and equipment shortages all suggest President Vladimir Putin’s military machine will soon be incapable of mounting meaningful offensive operations. 
One key to successful military planning lies in reliably identifying new ways to derive the greatest strategic benefit at the lowest overall cost. Ukraine’s decision to vigorously defend Bakhmut is an excellent example of this, even though it runs contrary to the logic that there was little strategic value in doing so. 
By throwing its own forces into Bakhmut, Ukraine has tied up a large proportion of the Russian military, inflicting heavy losses. Its approach is both a strategy of corrosion — the gradual attrition of the invader — and absorption, soaking up repeated Russian assaults while taking the pressure off other parts of the conflict zone. 
This has led to several important payoffs for Ukraine. First, Moscow’s commanders have been unable to shift forces to another axis of advance. 
Second, the loss of personnel and materiel means Russia has fewer bodies and less equipment available for its war effort. 
Third, it has created a buffer to construct Ukrainian defensive fortifications once Bakhmut finally falls. Finally, it has bought time to train and equip its forces for its own counteroffensive operations. 
One of the most important decisions President Volodymyr Zelensky will have to make is the timing of the counteroffensive. Ukraine’s forces will want to advance under optimal conditions to liberate as much of its territory as possible before winter closes in again. 
Failure to do so will not only weaken Kyiv’s hand in any peace negotiations but also potentially leave large swathes of Ukraine under Russian control for the foreseeable future. Russia’s forces are aware the strategic momentum will shift once Ukraine counterattacks and have been constructing tank traps, trenches and other defensive fortifications to arrest its momentum. 
Put simply, it’s absolutely crucial for Ukraine that its counteroffensive succeeds. If it doesn’t, the international coalition that has kept Ukraine in the fight with arms, training, and aid may well come to favor a negotiated settlement. 
Domestic politics will inevitably play a role in shaping the United States’ thinking as its election season gains momentum. While both sides of U.S. politics are fairly solidly behind continuing to send weapons and equipment to Kyiv, that may change. 
Indeed, the surest way to encourage U.S. populist isolationists will be a stalled Ukrainian advance. And since a multinational coalition is only as strong as its weakest link, Ukrainian planners will likewise be anxious not to give Berlin or Paris cause to waver. 
Besides the need to maintain international support for the full restoration of Ukrainian sovereignty, planning for offensive operations rests fundamentally on Kyiv’s ability to conduct them. 
Attacking is far more costly than defending. A counteroffensive launched before Kyiv has had the chance to recruit, prepare, arm, and assemble the necessary personnel would peter out quickly. Such a failure would deal a harsh blow to Ukrainian morale, hand momentum back to Russia, and lead to a pointless loss of life. Much discussion of Ukraine’s war needs has centered on tanks and air power. Of course, these are very important, yet neither can hold territory. For that, you need ground forces — and lots of them. 
What’s more, many of the likely lines of Ukrainian advance will feature choke points and vulnerable terrain. The retreating Russian army can be counted on to use mines, ambushes and scorched-earth tactics to funnel viable routes for the Ukrainians into impenetrable and risky ones. That means Ukrainian forces will also need specialized equipment and personnel, from bridging units to those specializing in clearing terrain. 
It's widely believed that the Ukrainian counterattack will occur around the southeastern Zaporizhzhia region (made famous by its regularly besieged nuclear power plant). But war is about trying to gain strategic surprise, at which Ukraine’s armed forces have shown themselves to be adept. 
Crimea will remain one of the thorniest problems in the war’s eventual resolution. The official position of the Zelensky government is clear: there can be no peace with Russia until Ukraine is fully restored, which includes the Crimean peninsula seized by Russia in 2014. This is understandable. Any hint of willingness to concede territory signals weakness domestically, to the Kremlin, and internationally. 
Importantly, Ukraine retains agency. It will ultimately decide on the scope and location of its counteroffensive. But several factors make Crimea a potentially special case. It’s well-defended and hard to assault. There are only about 10 roads linking the peninsula to the Kherson region and Western supporters of Ukraine remain concerned that Putin’s deep personal and political investment in Crimea would make a Ukrainian attempt to recapture it one of the Kremlin’s red lines” for further escalation. 
The lead-up to Ukraine’s imminent counteroffensive has so far been patient and careful, focusing on maximizing operational success. With more than a year of evidence to go by, we can expect Ukraine’s armed forces to perform better than their Russian adversaries. Time and again, Kyiv’s approach has been nimble, creative and efficient given limited means. Ukraine’s commanders have also sensibly followed the maxim of not interrupting your enemy while they are making a mistake (perhaps the sole thing Russia’s forces have excelled at). 
But the stakes for Ukraine are no less than its national survival. Its success or failure will determine whether its future will revolve around rebuilding a damaged but restored state, or the pain of fashioning an existence in a shattered and partial one. And the repercussions outside Ukraine will be no less solemn, teaching dictators either that expansionism is rewarded, or that it’s a catastrophic mistake. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Ukrainian shelling of a Russian town close to the border killed two people on Saturday, Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said. 
"Ukrainian armed forces fired on the settlement of Oktyabrsky from a rocket launcher. To my great sorrow, two people were killed: a man and a woman had numerous shrapnel wounds incompatible with life," Gladkov wrote on Telegram. 
The governor said that according to initial information 10 other people received shrapnel injuries, including an eight-year-old boy. 
Ukraine regularly fires across the border into the Belgorod region, which adjoins the Kharkiv region, where Russia launched an offensive on May 10 and has captured territory. 
The Saturday strike set on fire a private house and damaged 21 surrounding houses, a block of flats and 23 cars, Gladkov said. 
Oktyabrsky is located just over 10 kilometres from the border. 
Russia’s aggression against Ukraine has changed everything. At the time of writing, there have been more than 900 Ukrainian civilians and 1,300 soldiers killed since the start of the invasion on 24 February. At least 7,000 Russian have died - a greater death toll than that of American troops over 20 years in Iraq and Afghanistan combined. The conflict carries risks for the environment, too. On 4 March, Europe held its breath after Russian forces shelled the continent’s largest nuclear power plant, Zaporizhzhia, igniting a fire at a building. In this instance, firefighters succeeded in extinguished the flames and catastrophe was averted. But the conflict also threatens to unleash chemical hazards. On 21 March, shelling caused an ammonia leak at a chemical factory near Novoselytsya, in the west of the country on the border with Romania. Residents scrambled to take shelter. Join us as we discuss the environmental dimensions of the conflict with Wim Zwijnenburg, a project leader for the Dutch peace organisation PAX. A long-time analyst of the nexus between conflict and the environment in the Middle East, Zwijnenburg has been monitoring the environmental impacts of the conflict in Ukraine since 2014. 
One and a half months have passed since Russia invaded Ukraine. This is the second episode in our special series on the environmental impacts of the war. In this episode we discuss the nuclear risks and hazards surrounding the war in Ukraine. With us is Andriy Martynyuk, Executive Director of the NGO Ecoclub in Rivne, Western Ukraine. An environmental engineer by background, Martynyuk been working at Ecoclub since 2003 and is intimately acquainted with the country’s nuclear situation. Following an overview of the nuclear power plants in the country, he and Boris Schneider discuss the most pressing nuclear risks tied to the war, from radioactive dust from Chernobyl to how attacks on spent nuclear fuel storage facilities could unleash a "dirty nuclear bomb". Also on the table is the question of the international community's response and the effectiveness of bodies such as the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). 
Ukraine has decided to expand sanctions on Russian companies and entities to mirror those of the United States, which has blacklisted tycoons and allies of Russia's Vladimir Putin, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko said on Wednesday. 
Kiev has also extended existing sanctions it introduced against hundreds of Russian companies and entities in response to the annexation of Crimea in 2014 and Kremlin support for a pro-Russian separatist uprising in eastern Ukraine. 
"With today's decision, we have coordinated new sanctions ... with those that have been introduced by the United States against citizens and legal entities of the Russian Federation," Poroshenko said in a statement after a meeting of the country's Security and Defense Council. 
He did not say which individuals were on the latest list or when the sanctions would come into force, but he has previously said Ukraine would sanction Russian oligarchs including Oleg Deripaska. 
In April, the United States imposed major sanctions against 24 Russians, including aluminum tycoon Deripaska — one of Washington's most aggressive moves to punish Moscow for its alleged meddling in the 2016 U.S. election and other malign activity." 
It is not clear what effect the new Ukrainian sanctions will have as many Russian companies have already sought to wind up their Ukraine-linked activities due to earlier sanctions. 
If Deripaska is on the new list it could impact the operations of the Mykolaiv plant in Ukraine, which is the second-largest alumina asset of Deripaska's Rusal. 
The Mykolaiv plant has previously declined to comment on the impact of possible sanctions on Deripaska. 
The security and defense council said the new sanctions would be in force for at least three years and included penalties on Russian lawmakers and top officials. 
Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine has led to significant disruptions in the migratory patterns of a vulnerable species of eagles, according to a new study, forcing the birds to travel increasingly longer distances as they fly to reach their breeding grounds. 
Greater spotted eagles, whose breeding grounds stretch from most of Eastern Europe to as far away as Far East Russia’s Primorye region, are now flying on average 85 kilometers more during migration seasons in areas impacted by the war. 
This species of eagles usually migrates through September to November in the fall, and February to April in the spring. 
According to a group of researchers from the United Kingdom and Estonia, male greater spotted eagles saw a greater increase on average for migration flying time than females — males flew an additional 56 hours on average, while females flew an additional 53 hours. 
Moreover, while 90% of the birds observed for the study made stopovers in Ukraine before the war, only one-third did so in 2022, the year Moscow launched its invasion. 
The study noted that the longer fly times and fewer stopover locations have likely exhausted the birds in war-impacted areas to the point of having sublethal” effects, meaning the eagles are at greater risk of dying due to various causes. 
Ukrainian shelling attacks killed five people in Russian-occupied areas of the eastern Donetsk region on Friday, Moscow-installed authorities said. 
The Kremlin often accuses Kyiv of indiscriminate attacks on civilians. Ukraine denies the claims, saying it bombs only military targets responsible for deadly strikes on its own civilians. 
"Five people were killed," Russian-installed top official of the occupied Donetsk region, Denis Pushilin, said on social media, adding that three more were wounded. 
"As a result of the mass attack in the morning on the village Staromykhailivka of the Kirov region of Donetsk, women born in 1948 and 1988 and a man born in 1989 were killed," Pushilin said. 
He said shelling in the village of Luganske killed a woman born in 1961, and a woman born in 1963 was killed in the village of Aleksandrovka. 
He said that 11 residential houses were damaged in shelling in the Kirov district of the Donetsk region. 
Russia's war in Ukraine has dragged on for more than two years. 
An overnight Ukrainian drone strike in southern Russia’s Krasnodar region sparked a large fire and injured at least two workers at an oil depot, regional authorities said Friday. 
Russia’s Defense Ministry said its air defense systems destroyed 29 Ukrainian drones and five missiles over the region. 
Krasnodar region Governor Venyamin Kondratyev said an aerial attack set three tanks filled with petroleum products on fire in the Temryuk district, which lies just east of annexed Crimea. 
The fire has been assigned a high category of complexity,” Kondratyev wrote on Telegram. 
Two workers sustained minor injuries and the blaze was eventually put out, Temryuk district head Fyodor Babenkov said Friday morning. 
Babenkov released a photo showing a charred industrial site with pipes and tankers covered in firefighting foam. 
Ukraine has stepped up attacks on Russia’s energy infrastructure since the start of the year. Previous attacks on oil refineries inside Russia led to a slump in the country’s gasoline production earlier this spring. 
Thousands of Ukrainian civilians held by Russian forces are tortured and forced to dig trenches for the military, the Associated Press reported Thursday, citing dozens of former detainees, Ukrainian officials and satellite imagery. 
The report describes a system of detention and abuse of civilians — most without legal status under Russian law — that the AP said stands in direct violation of the Geneva Conventions. 
It’s a business of human trafficking,” said Lena Yahupova, a 50-year-old Zaporizhzhia region city administrator who was detained in October and managed to escape from captivity in March. 
Yahupova described being regularly forced to dig trenches with other Ukrainians — including business owners, utility workers, a student and a teacher — for over 12 hours at a time. Most prisoners wore Russian military uniforms, leading to fears that Ukrainian artillery might mistake them for enemy troops. 
The AP said it documented two locations using satellite imagery where Ukrainian prisoners were forced to dig defensive trenches for Russian forces in anticipation of Ukraine’s counteroffensive. 
Russian soldiers also forced prisoners to dig mass graves for their executed compatriots who disobeyed orders, according to people interviewed and satellite images. 
Ukraine’s government believes Russia may have detained approximately 10,000 civilians, Oleksandr Kononenko, a prisoner exchange negotiator, told the AP. 
Detainees are arbitrarily moved across facilities in what one relative described as an effort to conceal them from family members and just to hide the traces of crimes.” 
Russia denies holding Ukrainian civilians in captivity. 
But Kyiv said in June that Russia had freed approximately 150 Ukrainian civilians while denying others were being held, according to the AP. 
A June 27 United Nations report documented at least 53 exchanges of civilian prisoners for Russian soldiers — a violation of international law. 
The UN report also documented 77 executions of civilian captives and said 91% of prisoners described torture and ill-treatment. 
The AP’s report mapped 103 makeshift and formal detention facilities where Ukrainian civilians are held in Russia, Belarus and occupied Ukraine. 
Almost 100 photos provided by Ukrainian investigators from inside these facilities in liberated territories showed torture instruments that captive civilians described being subjected to in Russia and occupied regions. 
Russian authorities plan to build 31 new prison colonies and detention centers in occupied territories by 2026, the AP reported, citing a Russian government document it had obtained. 
The UN's human rights chief condemned the continued jailing of a leading figure in Russia's political opposition on Wednesday, demanding that he face "fair proceedings" for his opposition to the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 
Volker Turk, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, was "concerned by continued detention of opposition politician and journalist Vladimir Kara-Murza since April 2022," his office said in a tweet. 
The UN rights chief, it added, "calls for fair proceedings and his right of defense to be upheld." 
Kara-Murza, long a thorn in the side of Russian President Vladimir Putin, was jailed last year for denouncing the Kremlin's war in Ukraine and has been charged with high treason, which could see him jailed for two decades. 
Before the treason charge was added in October, the 41-year-old already had two criminal cases against him, which could potentially lengthen his sentence further. 
When he was detained in April, he was put on the Russian foreign agent list — a label reminiscent of the "enemy of the people" branding that was used extensively throughout the Soviet Union to isolate dissidents. 
And in August, he was accused of taking part in the activities of an "undesirable organization" for organizing a conference in support of Russian political prisoners. 
The Western-educated activist and journalist was a close associate of both opposition leader Boris Nemtsov, who was shot dead near the Kremlin in 2015, and Mikhail Khodorkovsky, a former oligarch who is now a Putin critic. 
Kara-Murza, who was awarded the Council of Europe's Vaclav Havel Human Rights Prize last year, claims he was poisoned twice because of his political activities, but he continued to live in Russia. 
Kara-Murza, a Russian citizen by birth, has also been a British citizen after moving to Britain with his mother when he was 15. 
The United States imposed sanctions on a Russian port service agency on Wednesday for aiding North Korean ships in breach of U.S. sanctions aimed at pressuring Pyongyang to end its nuclear programs. 
The U.S. Treasury sanctioned Russian-based Profinet Pte Ltd and its director general, Vasili Aleksandrovich Kolchanov, for providing port services on at least six occasions to North Korean-flagged ships. 
The Treasury department said in a statement that Kolchanov was personally involved in North Korea-related deals and interacted directly with North Korean representatives in Russia. 
Kolchalov called the allegations "lies" and said that the ships in question had left their port before U.S. restrictions had entered into force in 2017, the state-run RIA Novosti news agency reported. 
The Profinet director said that the sanctions would adversely affect his company. 
"They'll affect those with whom we've worked — they'll be afraid to work with us. They'll be afraid of the Americans," he was cited as saying. 
Chinese firms that had netted more than $1 billion a year by exporting alcohol and cigarette products to North Korea were also targeted by the sanctions, the statement said. 
"The tactics that these entities based in China, Singapore, and Russia are using to attempt to evade sanctions are prohibited under U.S. law, and all facets of the shipping industry have a responsibility to abide by them or expose themselves to serious risks," U.S. Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin said in a statement. 
Russia has detained the U.S. founder of the Baring Vostok private equity group in Moscow on suspicion of fraud, a spokeswoman for Moscow's Basmanny court told Reuters on Friday. 
Yunona Tsaryova, the spokeswoman, said Michael Calvey was detained on Thursday. 
Moscow's Basmanny court will rule later on Friday on whether to hold Calvey in custody, Interfax said. 
Baring Vostok is a major equity fund group in Russia. Its website says it has over $3.7 billion of committed capital. 
Calvey, also a senior partner at the fund, set it up in 1994. 
Other members of the fund's team were also reported to have been detained. 
The same Moscow court will decide later on Friday whether to hold a partner in the fund, Vagan Abgaryan, in custody, Interfax cited the same court spokeswoman as saying. 
Baring Vostok was cited by Interfax as saying that Calvey had been detained in connection to a dispute over Russia's Vostochny Bank, in which the fund is a controlling shareholder. 
Before starting at Baring Vostok, Calvey worked for the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and Salomon Brothers. 
Washington D.C. has repeatedly called on Moscow to sell its former consulate building in San Francisco after it was shuttered in September, the Kommersant newspaper reported Thursday. 
The U.S. State Department ordered Russia on Aug 31. to close its San Francisco consulate and scale back operations in Washington D.C. and New York after the U.S imposed fresh sanctions on Moscow in early August. 
U.S. Secretary of State Rex Tillerson suggested to his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov that the diplomatic property be put on sale on numerous occasions behind closed doors, Kommersant reported, citing Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov. 
The annexes in San Francisco and New York are both owned by Russia and according to American real-estate portal Trulia.com the San Francisco property could be sold for up to $50 million. 
Russian diplomats are not pleased with the proposal because they hope to reopen the San Francisco consulate, Kommersant reports. 
Ryabkov and U.S. Undersecretary of State for Political Affairs Thomas Shannon discussed reinstating the properties in Helsinki earlier this week but made little progress, the deputy minister said. 
Ryabkov reiterated Russia’s plan to file a lawsuit against the U.S. for violating diplomatic immunity for using the threat of force” during searches of the San Francisco property on Sept. 2. The Deputy Foreign Minister said Moscow would have a case prepared in a matter of weeks. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin said earlier this month he would instruct the Foreign Ministry to take Washington to court for the violation of Russia’s property rights.” 
Let’s see how effective the widely praised American judicial system is,” he added. 
A top Russian propagandist on Sunday accused the Wagner boss of "going off the rails" after receiving billions in public funds, as Moscow's new narrative takes shape after Wagner's brief mutiny. 
Last weekend the head of the Wagner mercenary group, Yevgeny Prigozhin, led his forces in a short-lived rebellion against Russia's top military brass, in a huge embarrassment for the Kremlin. 
"Prigozhin has gone off the rails because of big money," Dmitry Kiselev, one of the main faces of the Russian propaganda machine, said on his weekly television show on Sunday. 
"He thought that he can challenge the Defense Ministry, the state itself and the president personally." 
Kisilev said that Wagner's operations in Syria and Africa had given Prigozhin a feeling of impunity that was later reinforced by his rag-tag forces' battlefield successes in eastern Ukraine. 
Without providing any evidence, Kisilev said Wagner had received more than 858 billion rubles ($9.7 billion) in state funds. 
In a stunning admission earlier this week, President Vladimir Putin said for the first time that Russian authorities "fully" financed the paramilitary outfit. 
Between May 2022 and May 2023, Wagner received more than 86 billion rubles from the Russian state, Putin said. 
Private mercenary groups are banned under Russian law. 
Targeted by sanctions from Washington and Brussels, Prigozhin had for years operated in the shadows but has catapulted into the limelight since Putin sent troops into Ukraine in February 2022. 
In profanity-laced diatribes, he accused the Russian military of attempting to "steal" victories from Wagner in eastern Ukraine and slammed Moscow's "monstrous bureaucracy" for slowing military gains. 
Prigozhin was allowed to recruit fighters from prisons and in March Russian lawmakers approved legislation introducing lengthy prison terms for those who criticize "volunteer groups" such as the Wagner. 
Many political observers saw Prigozhin's attempt at insurrection as a sign that Putin's grip on power is weakening. 
Moscow officials and propagandists insist, however, that Russians have rallied around Putin. 
On Sunday, Vyacheslav Volodin, the speaker of Russia's lower house of parliament, wrote that Putin emerged out of "this very difficult situation" even stronger. 
"He did everything to prevent bloodshed," Volodin wrote on messaging app Telegram. 
"If there had been people like Putin at the helm of the state in 1917 and 1991, there would have been no revolution and no collapse of the U.S.S.R." 
Russia’s Wagner mercenary group has announced it is suspending the recruitment of new fighters in the aftermath of its failed mutiny and as the Russian military’s deadline for volunteer units to sign contracts passed over the weekend. 
Wagner’s recruitment channel on the Telegram messaging app said late Sunday that a one-month recruitment suspension was linked to its temporary non-participation” in the war in Ukraine and its relocation to neighboring Belarus. 
At the same time, Saturday marked the Russian Defense Ministry’s deadline requiring all volunteer detachments” to sign contracts with the military. 
Wagner’s now-exiled leader Yevgeny Prigozhin had refused to comply with the Defense Ministry's order and launched a short-lived mutiny to save” the mercenary outfit on June 23, days after the order was made public. 
A deal brokered by Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko spared Prigozhin criminal mutiny charges in exchange for his exile in Belarus. 
Prigozhin has since dismantled his media holding — which included the infamous troll farm known as the Internet Research Agency — after reports suggested it would be taken over by other Kremlin-linked tycoons. 
It was not immediately clear how Wagner’s suspended recruitment of new fighters would affect its operations in Africa and Syria, where the mercenaries have been accused of committing abuses. 
Wagner played a key role in the fight for the eastern Ukrainian city of Bakhmut, the longest and bloodiest battle in the war until it was captured by Russian forces in May. 
Prigozhin had announced the withdrawal from Bakhmut later that month after revealing the loss of 20,000 out of the recruited 50,000 Wagner fighters in the fight. 
Russia’s Wagner mercenary group is once again recruiting fighters for deployment in Africa, months after the death of its leader Yevgeny Prigozhin, the investigative news outlet Vyorstka and research group Nordsint reported in a joint investigation published on Thursday. 
Wagner disbanded late last year and its fighters were transferred to units under the control of the Russian armed forces after Prigozhin launched a failed mutiny against Russia’s military leadership. In August, the mercenary chief and his close associates were killed in a plane crash that is widely believed to have been an assassination plot orchestrated by the Kremlin. 
According to Vyorstka and Nordsint’s investigative report, anonymous Russian Defense Ministry sources say several thousand” Russian soldiers have been transferred from Ukraine to Africa — both as mercenaries and regular soldiers — since mid-February. They were reportedly tasked with training local military personnel and other mercenaries. 
At the same time, Wagner has posted at least 18 recruitment ads on its Telegram channel over the past month, with a message that reads: Wagner has a lot of work to do in Africa!” 
The investigative report identifies Mali as the key destination for Wagner’s new recruits. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin spoke last week with the head of the Malian junta, colonel Assimi Goita, with the two leaders agreeing to step up cooperation in energy, agricultural and mining projects, as well as in counterterrorism. 
Wagner was for years seen as an armed extension of Moscow’s influence in Africa, but the future of its overseas operations had been called into question in the tumultuous months after Prigozhin’s revolt. 
Vyorstka reported that it had contacted a Wagner recruiter, who was quoted as saying: Ideally, to get everything done within two weeks, we plan to send the next group [of Wagner recruits] in mid-April.” 
The joint investigation revealed that Wagner is currently offering six-month contracts with a starting salary of 240,000 rubles ($2,600) per month, as well as life insurance for men aged 22-50. Those terms are similar to the ones promised to Wagner mercenaries who had been fighting in Ukraine. 
Shortly before his death last year, Prigozhin said his military outfit was continuing its activities” in Africa and Belarus, where the mercenaries were sent after their short-lived rebellion. 
PMC Wagner… makes Russia even greater on all continents, and Africa more free,” the late mercenary leader said at the time. We’re recruiting real heroes and continue to carry out the tasks that have been set and that we promised to deal with.” 
The Wagner mercenary group will continue operations in Mali and the Central African Republic despite its leader's aborted insurrection over the weekend, Russia's foreign minister said on Monday. 
Wagner members "are working there as instructors. This work, of course, will continue," Sergei Lavrov said in an interview with the RT outlet. 
Lavrov said Europe and France in particular had "abandoned" the two African countries, which had in turn asked Russia and Wagner to provide military instructors and "to ensure the security of their leaders." 
Western powers believe the Wagner group is used to promote Russia's influence abroad and have accused the group of torture and exploiting natural resources. 
In the RT interview, Lavrov also said the rebellion by Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin would not change anything in Russia's ties with its allies. 
"There have been many calls (from foreign partners) to President (Vladimir) Putin... to express their support," he said. 
Asked if there could be any changes to Russia's international relations as a result, Lavrov said: "With partners and friends, no. As for the others, frankly, I don't care. Relations between the collective West and us have been destroyed." 
In this episode, we're speaking with one of the world’s top Russian energy experts, Thane Gustafson. How has the war in Ukraine has reshaped the global energy trade? And could it help accelerate the energy transition? Thane is a professor in Russian politics and the politics of Government in the Soviet Union at Georgetown University in Washington. A former professor at Harvard University, he is the author of many books, including The Bridge: Natural Gas in a Redivided Europe and Wheel of Fortune: The Battle for Oil and Power in Russia, as well as most recently Klimat: Russia in the Age of Climate Change. 
In September 2019, Russia formally joined the Paris Agreement, raising hopes the world's fourth largest emitter would finally throw its weight behind global decarbonisation efforts. The move followed years of lobbying from European governments, including Germany, France and Scandinavian countries. Nearly 3 years later, the Kremlin's war on Ukraine appears to have severely undermined climate action and international collaboration over climate science. In an interview with Boris Schneider, Maria Pastukhova, a senior policy advisor at climate think tank E3G, assesses the state of the ecological transition and advises on how the West can limit the damage. 
In this episode, we're speaking with Bill Hare, a physicist and climate scientist with 30 years’ experience in the science, impact and policy responses to climate change and stratospheric ozone depletion. He is a founder and CEO of Climate Analytics, which was established to synthesise and advance scientific knowledge on climate change and provide state-of-the-art solutions to global and national climate change policy challenges. 
The invasion of Ukraine by Russia has not only impacted the price and availability of commodities such as oil and gas, but aluminium, nickel and rare earth elements including titanium, scandium and palladium. In this episode we discuss the issues around the production and supply of rare earth minerals with Robert Muggah, a political scientist, urbanist and security expert. Muggah is the co-founder of the Igarape Institute, a think tank dedicated to climate security that is based in Brazil. 
We discuss deforestation. Continuing our special COP26 series from Glasgow, we recorded this episode a day after more than 100 countries committed to end deforestation. Among the signatories were many of the states of our region: some of the big guns — Russia, Poland, Ukraine. Joining them are also Albania, Armenia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Estonia, Latvia, Kyrgyzstan, Kazakhstan, North Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia and Slovenia. Our guest on this episode is Paola Deda, director of the Forest, Land and Housing Division at the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe (UNECE). Paola has been speaking at the conference in Glasgow. Angelina Davydova and Boris Schneider caught up with her to discuss how the latest deforestation pledge might translate in the region. 
Sting singing I hope the Russians love their children too” from a Moscow TV studio. Appearances by Facebook CEO Mark Zuckerberg and interviews with Ukrainian politicians. Political satire on the country’s top comedy show. 
None of these things would appear on television in today’s Russia, which has been isolated from the West and under strict Kremlin control since the invasion of Ukraine. But just a few years ago, they did. 
One small online project is trying to revive the relative freedoms of pre-war Russian television by posting short, catchy clips of television broadcasts from the 1990s, 2000s and 2010s. 
The television we lost”: that’s how the project A Chto Po TV (What’s on TV?), which has almost 270,000 Instagram followers, describes itself. 
I decided to start this channel to show the contrast between the television we used to have, for example in the 1990s and 2000s, and what we have nowadays. So everyone can see the difference,” Alexander, 38, A Chto Po TV’s creator, told The Moscow Times. 
In many ways, the project also shows a country that was lost. 
I want people to watch these videos and reflect on why this happened and how we lost it. And why the television we have now is a mouthpiece for propaganda,” he added, asking that his last name be withheld because of his opposition views. 
In recent years, the Kremlin has intensified pushing its narrative of Russian nationalism, anti-Western sentiments and traditional values” through state-run TV channels — the main news source for roughly two-thirds of Russians. 
Since the February 2022 invasion of Ukraine, Russian state television has justified the war by claiming the Kremlin had no other choice” but to invade, while talking heads and hosts claim President Volodymyr Zelensky is a drug addict and portray the war as a liberation” of Ukrainians from Kyiv’s Nazi” regime. 
A Chto Po TV shows a drastically different television, with many figures whose lives and careers have radically changed since the invasion. 
One video posted by the project shows American actor Elijah Wood’s 2013 appearance on the popular late-night talk show Vecherniy Urgant (Evening Urgant”) on Channel One, the country’s main state-run broadcaster. 
Vecherniy Urgant has not aired since February 2022, when its host Ivan Urgant expressed his opposition to the war against Ukraine. The channel said the show was suspended due to a scheduling problem. 
In a 2003 clip, Novaya Gazeta journalist Anna Politkovskaya speaks to television anchor Vladimir Solovyov on the air. Politkovskaya, who was famous for her reporting from Chechnya, was assassinated on President Vladimir Putin’s birthday in 2006. Today, Solovyov is a leading propagandist and a vocal cheerleader for the war in Ukraine. 
Another clip shows the Kultura TV (Culture TV) channel’s broadcast of the prestigious 2022 Golden Mask theater awards. Among the winners shown is playwright Svetlana Petriychuk for her play Finist, the Brave Falcon.” 
Today, Petriychuk and director Yevgeniya Berkovich are on trial for justifying terrorism” in the play, which is about Russian women who fall in love with Islamic State militants in Syria, and have been added to Russia’s list of "terrorists and extremists." 
Many artists and singers who were banned from performing in Russia and blacklisted from television because of their anti-war views can still be seen in clips posted by A Chto Po TV — like Ilya Lagutenko from the Mumiy Troll rock band, Russian rapper Noize MC and poet Vera Polozkova. 
The project also posts clips of cartoons, films and advertisements from the 1990s as well as old interviews with politicians including the late Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny. 
Although Alexander said he doesn’t watch present-day Russian television, he said his knowledge of the media landscape helps him run the project. 
I’m a spectator, I’ve always been on the other side of the screen,” said Alexander, an engineer by training who later took courses in video editing. 
However, I watched a lot of TV in my childhood and I believe my expertise helps me,” he said, adding that the project was also inspired by renowned British filmmaker Adam Curtis’ documentaries made from archival footage. 
Alexander — like thousands of Russians — left the country after the invasion of Ukraine. In 2023, he launched A Chto Po TV from Georgia, a popular hub for Russian emigres, including exiled journalists. 
Russian authorities have blocked more than 130 media outlets since independent reporting on and criticism of the invasion of Ukraine were outlawed soon after the war started. 
Television remains the main source of information for at least 65% of Russians, a percentage that rises to 85% among older age groups, according to a survey published by the independent Levada pollster last month. 
Last week, Channel One ran segments describing how Russian troops were advancing on Ukraine's frontline, describing Russian soldiers as defenders” and asking viewers to donate money for military equipment. 
Channel One host Dmitry Kiselyov — who regularly references the prospect of nuclear war on the air — opened his news program last month with nuclear threats. 
In the West, people are increasingly asking the question: Will Russia use nuclear weapons? The answer is yes, but under what conditions?” Kiselyov asked during his Sunday primetime show Vesti Nedeli (Weekly News”). 
Yet comments published under A Chto Po TV’s videos show that many Russians appear to long for the days when their country gave a platform to politically independent musicians and Western celebrities. 
This clip takes you back to a carefree youth,” Yana Minaeva, a follower of A Chto Po TV, commented under a clip from a 2009 TV concert. 
Where there are no horrors like those we are experiencing now.” 
In an interview with MT, a former member of Moscow’s drag collectives describes life and drag under Russia’s intensifying anti-LGBTQ+ restrictions. 
MOSCOW — We live in an intolerant environment,” Eugene, a former member of the Russian capital’s drag collectives, told The Moscow Times while walking near a nightclub in the city center where he and his fellow artists used to work. 
That sentiment, Eugene said, is shared by drag artists who play with gender stereotypes, norms and expression as well as many LGBTQ+ people and advocates for freedom of expression in Russia. 
Amid the Kremlin’s wider push for "traditional values,” Russia last year added the so-called international LGBT public movement” to its list of terrorists and extremists, putting at risk of fines and criminal prosecution anyone who has publicly associated with LGBTQ+ lifestyles or symbols, activists said. 
In December 2023, police raided a number of Moscow nightclubs shortly after Russia's top court banned the "international LGBT movement." 
The St. Petersburg gay club Central Station and the Moscow club Secret, which both hosted drag performances, were forced to shut down. A queer bar in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk also closed in February after a police raid over a performance where drag artists were seen dancing in soldiers’ uniforms. 
The Moscow Times spoke to Eugene about the lives of drag artists and LGBTQ+ people in modern Russia. 
Eugene, 21, asked not to reveal his full name due to the risk of being prosecuted under Russia’s anti-LGBTQ+ legislation. 
This interview has been edited for length and clarity. 
MT: How did you become interested in drag culture? 
E: I've always been intrigued by the nightlife scene in Moscow. That's why, around three years ago, my friend and I decided to go to a nightclub after seeing a poster on social media advertising a big show with artists and dancing. Up until that point, I wasn't very familiar with drag culture, or at least, I knew very little about it. But from the first moments, I witnessed something incredible. I was truly inspired and captivated by what I saw on stage — the show, the costumes, the music. I felt a sense of freedom, unlike anything I'd experienced before. 
Later, I began going to nightclubs more often. I was already involved in chat groups [with drag artists] where there was always a very friendly and supportive atmosphere. I also started assisting with various tasks for drag performances, such as buying fake eyelashes or glitter. Most of my work involved special effects — I often mixed edible artificial blood, which washed off white fabrics very well, so that was quite cool. Once, during a show, I created an artificial fire. Initially, I participated behind the scenes, helping with performances and decorations, but eventually, I found myself on stage as an actor and dancer. I never thought I was capable of dancing like that in front of a large audience. It was quite an experience. 
MT: Was there a feeling at that time that doing this might become unsafe in some way? 
E: No, I didn't think that I was of any interest to anyone. All my concerns revolved around my friends and relatives. I had to say that I was working night shifts or staying at my friends' places, making up excuses. 
In terms of relatives, we live in an intolerant environment. Some of my relatives — I can't say that they directly support the war [against Ukraine] — but they made statements that seemed controversial to me. It seems that when a person strongly opposes something they don't understand, such as other cultures, they may use indecent expressions toward people from other countries. They later extend this attitude to people from the LGBTQ+ community. That's why I stopped trying to show them the performances and costumes we created after a few unsuccessful attempts. They just shrugged their shoulders. 
MT: How did the Russian drag community respond to the tightening of anti-LGBTQ+ laws? 
E: Our club banned filming and taking photos inside to avoid putting anyone at risk. Everyone had concerns… Many artists have other jobs, as drag isn't very developed in our conservative country and is mostly a hobby. Of course, they [drag artists] have other aspects of their lives that we may not even be aware of. It's frightening to think that a data leak could jeopardize their entire lives. 
After the laws were tightened, there were several waves of anxiety, so to speak. For example, sometimes men with very bright makeup and ostentatious clothes were not allowed into the club as spectators. Perhaps the club did not want to attract unnecessary attention to itself, as there had been several police raids prompted by dissatisfied visitors. 
There were also situations when law enforcement authorities came and the artists were informed. One of the artists quickly shoved all their belongings into their suitcases and rushed out of the club; others didn't have time. There were fears that we would be accused of so-called ‘LGBT propaganda.’ 
I'm glad that occasionally, some drag performances still incorporate political messages. Though technically it’s not permitted, these messages are often conveyed allegorically, buried within the performance. One drag artist expressed wishes for love and good health, adding a wish for a future where we could all use Instagram without needing a VPN. This phrase struck me because it wasn't just about a specific social network that is banned by the country’s authorities — it spoke to a broader notion of freedom within society. 
MT: How have the tightening restrictions affected you personally? 
E: When the first recent changes happened [in 2022, when Russia expanded its ban on ‘LGBT propaganda’ to encompass content aimed at all ages] I couldn’t believe it at all. And what hit us the hardest, probably, was the adoption of the ‘transgender law’ [in 2023, Russia banned transgender people from accessing gender-affirming services]. This is very scary, because you realize that the state has been given some power over the bodies and feelings of other people. It’s also scary because my transgender friends have received military summonses [to fight in Ukraine], both trans men and trans women. You sense that sooner or later, this may affect your loved ones. I truly wish for everyone, including myself, to feel safe. Unfortunately, not everyone has the opportunity to leave or protect themselves in any way. 
MT: Do you feel safe in Russia? 
E: Honestly, this whole dictatorship with its restrictions is the opposite of what it should be — a state that protects you. You'd rather turn anywhere but to law enforcement agencies, even when it's about personal safety. [After drag performances] you think in advance about what you'll say about your look if someone asks, especially when it involves security agencies but also just a passerby. You always need to come up with excuses to secure everything somehow. Often, even without paying attention to how you dress or behave, you end up saying the same things as always. So sometimes people come up to you and ask very strange questions. 
MT: What are your thoughts on the future? 
E: Certainly, I want to remain optimistic, but I strive to approach life with a realistic perspective. Personally, I find it unlikely that there will be significant positive changes in the next 20-30 years. While there may be some hope now, it appears faint and unrealistic. I attend various [LGBTQ+] gatherings and meetings which are becoming even more exclusive and closed. LGBTQ+ organizations will likely continue to exist as local Telegram chats under different aliases. 
There are already clandestine gatherings taking place, including underground parties hosted at homes. I plan to attend one such event. Additionally, some drag artists arrange gatherings or private screenings of queer films in their homes or other private venues. When yet another restrictive law was adopted, my friends and I immediately rushed to buy books because we were afraid that they would disappear from sale, particularly literature on gender studies and queer literature. I have several shelves of these books at home now. One friend of mine occasionally invites me to closed literary readings focused on LGBTQ+ themes. 
Former Fox News star Tucker Carlson caused a stir last week when he traveled to Moscow to interview President Vladimir Putin, becoming the first foreign journalist to do so since 2019. 
While the rare interview was primarily aimed at Western audiences, Russian state media and authorities have also been eager to promote the two-hour talk to the Russian public. We asked people on the streets of Moscow what they thought of the interview. 
Last week, a Moscow court sentenced jailed Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny to 19 years in prison on a string of new extremism” charges that his supporters have called an attempt to keep him out of politics forever. 
We asked people on the streets of Moscow what they think about the verdict against him. 
Vladimir Putin on Thursday expressed his "condolences" over a plane crash that is said to have killed Yevgeny Prigozhin. While there has yet to be an official confirmation of the Wagner chief's death, many suspect he was assassinated. 
We asked people on the streets of Moscow what they think. 
The ruble has taken a beating in recent weeks, triggering concerns that it could set off an inflationary spiral and panic in domestic financial markets. But what do people on the streets of Moscow think about the Russian currency's decline? 
Independent news outlet Novaya Gazeta Europe reported on Monday that Ramzan Kadyrov, the strongman leader of Chechnya, has been living with a potentially fatal illness for more than five years, prompting the Kremlin to start working on a plan for a managed transfer of power. 
In the first part of its investigation into the political landscape in the North Caucasus republic, Novaya Gazeta Europe detailed 47-year-old Kadyrov’s many hospitalizations for his alleged pancreatic necrosis and how both his and the Kremlin’s PR teams have tried to conceal the Chechen leader’s rapidly deteriorating condition. 
The outlet also named Major General Apti Alaudinov, the commander of Kadyrov’s own Akhmat military unit fighting on the frontlines in Ukraine, as the successor favored by the Kremlin. 
To make sense of the bombshell investigation spotlighting one of Russia’s most volatile regions, The Moscow Times asked leading experts and activists for their first impressions and predictions for Chechnya’s future after Kadyrov. 
Tanya Lokshina, associate director of Human Rights Watch's Europe and Central Asia division 
I have the utmost respect for colleagues at Novaya Gazeta who have been looking at Chechnya with full professional dedication for many years and who are really quite knowledgeable as far as Chechnya is concerned. At the same time…Kadyrov is very far from dead yet,” Lokshina told The Moscow Times. 
I think what's important right now is that Kadyrov's position in Chechnya is very strong. And it's not about Kadyrov alone as a single-handed dictator…If he dies or if his health deteriorates and he won't be able to continue with carrying out his duties, there are quite a few people behind him who would be continuing in the same vein,” said Lokshina. 
The type of abuses that we've been documenting in Chechnya for many years, abuses perpetrated with complete impunity, the absolute lack of freedom that contemporary Chechnya is infamous for, are not going to disappear if Kadyrov disappears." 
Abubakar Yangulbaev, Chechen human rights lawyer and activist 
Chechen activists, opposition figures and dissidents have been discussing Apti Alaudinov’s behavior, ambitions of [the chair of the Chechen parliament] Magomed Daudov, as well as Kadyrov’s children…and his health for at least the past year,” Yangulbaev told The Moscow Times. So nothing in this investigation surprised me.” 
Yangulbaev said he believes Alaudinov, who was singled out in the investigation, is just one of several potential successors of Kadyrov who, if chosen, would merely keep the seat warm until Kadyrov’s eldest son — now 18 — comes of age to succeed him. 
Alaudinov’s role would resemble that of second Chechen president Alu Alkhanov, who served as a placeholder for Ramzan Kadyrov after his father Akhmad Kadyrov was assassinated in 2004, according to Yangulbaev. 
Alaudinov will be like that. He can only temporarily guard the seat [for Kadyrov’s son] because he has no authority in the eyes of the Chechen people and especially in the eyes of Kadyrovites, who are trained like service dogs,” said Yangulbaev. 
Intuitively, right now I don’t really expect any changes,” Yangulbaev said when asked whether Kadyrov’s sudden death could plunge Chechnya into turmoil. But these things usually happen unpredictably and unexpectedly.” 
Harold Chambers, an analyst focusing on nationalism, conflict and security in the North Caucasus 
The assessment of Alaudinov’s viability I found not plausible, as it was detached from his own history, Kadyrov regime internal dynamics, Kadyrov regime domestic politics, and the regime’s relationship with Moscow,” Chambers said of Novaya Gazeta Europe’s investigation. They considered Chechnya as just another federal subject, rather than the Kadyrov family’s personal fiefdom, with internal formal and informal structures developed accordingly.” 
Chambers said he believes that Chechnya is unlikely to descend into chaos unless there is a regime change in the Kremlin before Kadyrov leaves power. 
I expect a projection of stability regardless of how succession is handled. Beneath the façade of propaganda, however, there will surely be in-fighting over division of responsibilities and power, unless one of the Kadyrov sons is ready to take over the role of governor,” he told The Moscow Times. 
Regardless, Kadyrov’s death would certainly create a perceived window of opportunity for resumed larger-scale conflict, meaning an uptick in militant activity would likely occur. I say ‘perceived’ because there is a chance the chain of command remains continuous — I suspect this matter is already somewhat settled, and likely has been for a while.” 
Ivan U. Kłyszcz, a researcher of Russian policy at the International Center for Defense and Security in Tallinn, Estonia 
I'm conflicted about this story [published by Novaya Gazeta Europe],” Kłyszcz told The Moscow Times. 
On the one hand, the story does bring together many points that we have noticed before, which have been picked up by [other] media and analysts. I trust Novaya Gazeta…but this is also the type of story that could be manipulated for purposes of disinformation. They've promised that there would be more reports, so I'm holding my judgment until new evidence is presented.” 
Kłyszcz said he was not persuaded” that the Akhmat unit’s Apti Alaudinov could be Kadyrov’s potential successor. 
Based on how Kadyrov got his position in the first place — that it was kind of a dynastic succession — I strongly believe that the successor would be if not Kadyrov’s child, then at least someone who is incredibly close to him,” said Kłyszcz. 
These types of precedents are very important. They do shape the way actors think about how succession might be done. Of course, that doesn't preclude the possibility of other paths and other outcomes.” 
As Russia opens a new front in its invasion of Ukraine, the country has a new Defense Minister. Sergei Shoigu has been replaced with the economist Andrei Belousov. Who is he, and what does his appointment mean for Russia’s war machine? 
This week we talked with Ruben Enikolopov, a political economist and professor at Pompeu Fabra University in Barcelona, about what to expect from Belousov’s new role. 
Russia on the Record is a podcast where Moscow Times journalists, independent experts and ordinary Russians reflect, analyze and explain what’s going on in Russia right now. 
The South Caucasus nation of Georgia has for weeks been gripped by mass protests against a controversial foreign influence” bill that critics say resembles legislation in Russia used to crack down on independent media and the opposition. 
Introduced into parliament last month by the country’s ruling Georgian Dream coalition, the bill would force organizations receiving more than 20% of their funding from abroad to register as entities pursuing the interests of a foreign power.” 
Opponents of the draft law warn that, if adopted, it could hinder Georgia’s aspirations to join the EU and push the country closer to Russia, which maintains control over the breakaway Georgian territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia. 
The Moscow Times spoke with experts to make sense of what is happening in Georgia, what might come next, and whether Russia may be involved. 
Why is Georgian Dream pushing the bill forward now? 
The foreign influence” bill’s current advancement through parliament marks Georgian Dream’s second attempt at passing legislation that would scrutinize organizations receiving foreign funding. 
Georgia’s parliament scrapped a similar bill last spring amid mass anti-government demonstrations in Tbilisi, as well as warnings from Western officials over what they described as democratic backsliding in the country. 
I was surprised when they canceled this [bill] last year,” said Tbilisi-based political analyst Archil Sikharulidze. The introduction of this [bill]…was inevitable, whether by this government or by the following one. This is a general tendency, an attempt to control the external flow of money.” 
Other experts told The Moscow Times that they believe Georgian Dream is pushing the bill forward to secure its grip on power ahead of the October parliamentary elections, even though the move might seem counterintuitive in a political climate where nearly 80% of Georgians support their country’s efforts to become an EU member. 
It seemed clear for quite a long while that Georgian Dream is trying to emulate the Hungarian model in terms of appealing to social conservatism,” said Alex Scrivener, who heads the Tbilisi-based Democratic Security Institute. 
Hungary, an EU and NATO member state, passed its own law on foreign influence law last year. 
Scrivener described Georgia’s ruling coalition’s approach to governing as an attempt to buttress a sort of permanent one-party, semi-democratic, authoritarian state,” adding: Georgian Dream members are all about maintaining power.” 
Being pro-Western helped them stay in power for the past 10 years. And now, doing the opposite is helping them to stay in power. It’s just pragmatism on their part, or so they think,” the analyst told The Moscow Times. 
What role does billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili play? 
The ambitions and fears of 68-year-old Bidzina Ivanishvili, Georgia’s wealthiest man and Georgian Dream’s founder, guide much of his party’s political position-taking, some experts say. 
After years in the shadows, Ivanishvili returned to the public spotlight earlier this year, assuming the formal title of an honorary chairman” of the ruling party. 
Eurasia Group analyst Tinatin Japaridze said the billionaire’s comeback came amid rumors that some members of his party were becoming too independent and keeping him in the dark on major decision-making processes. 
He wanted to make sure that this ends, that there are no efforts for anyone to ad-lib on the side, and to do what they want without him being very much in the loop and in full control,” Japaridze told The Moscow Times. 
In a rare public speech at a pro-government rally last month, which saw scores of people bused into Tbilisi from across the country, Ivanishvili accused Western governments of interfering in Georgia’s internal affairs. He claimed foreign-funded NGOs strengthen” the influence of foreign intelligence agencies in the country's domestic politics. 
He thinks the West is out to get him,” said analyst Scrivener. In his mind, he identifies more with the victims of the so-called ‘color revolutions’ — the overthrown authoritarians — than he does with the protesters in Ukraine, in Moldova, in Kyrgyzstan…and in Georgia.” 
However, some believe speculations of Ivanishvili’s far-reaching political influence to be greatly exaggerated. 
There is this tendency among Georgian, Russian, Western experts to blame everything on one person, like during the [presidency of Mikheil] Saakashvili…everyone blamed him [for all that was happening]. Now we are aware that half of [those accusations] were lies,” said analyst Sikharulidze. 
The same is true here. I don't think Bidzina Ivanishvili is behind every [political] decision and every issue,” he added. 
What does Russia have to do with it? 
Some people talk about this as a ‘Russia bill’ because it’s essentially a Russia-inspired foreign agent bill, but also because it is one that will place Georgia within Moscow's orbit and away from the Western one,” Japaridze said. 
But it’s, of course not as if Russia sent a fax to Tbilisi and said ‘This is what we would like you to translate into Georgian and then adopt’,” she added. 
Some in Georgia fear that Georgian Dream, which has increasingly sought to strike a balance between maintaining ties with the West and normalizing relations with Moscow, might turn a looming threat of Russian military intervention into a tool of political manipulation. 
The fear in Georgia is that there will be something like a Kazakhstan or a Belarus scenario if the elections in October are not free and fair and Georgian Dream wins them unfairly,” said Scrivener, referring to the 2022 anti-government demonstrations in Kazakhstan that were quashed with the help of Moscow’s troops. 
But analyst Sikharulidze argued that Russia’s role — if any — in the current standoff between Georgian Dream and anti-government forces has been overblown. 
Somehow we are stuck in this paradigm of the West [and] Russia, turning a blind eye to the fact that plenty of Turkish, Iranian, Azerbaijani, Chinese, and Arabic agents are working here, financing different cultural, non-cultural activities,” Sikharulidze told The Moscow Times. 
This is also not controlled, and there are fears [about them] among people,” he said. 
What’s next? 
Georgia’s parliament is widely expected to pass the foreign influence” bill in its third and final reading later this month. 
While President Salome Zurabishvili, who has long fallen out of favor with the ruling party, vowed to veto the controversial draft law, Georgian Dream has enough seats in parliament to override such a move. 
Some analysts warn that the bill, which would introduce a set of new financial regulations that foreign-funded entities must follow, could affect the outcome of the fall parliamentary elections, thus hindering the political opposition and the work of independent monitors and media, many of whom rely predominantly on funds from foreign donors. 
Georgian Dream believes that if they [the monitors and media] don't have foreign funding…then they are not going to carry much clout and will not be sufficiently well-equipped to continue exposing the government's shortcomings,” said Japaridze of Eurasia Group. 
It would make it easier [for Georgian Dream] to get reelected and also increase the risk of rigged election results,” she added, warning of a deepening rift between Georgia’s government and the general public. 
But not everyone believes recent protests to be a precursor for irreversible divisions within Georgia’s society. 
Protests in front of the parliament building in Georgia may sound nice. It may make a good picture. But if you look at what is really happening: the whole process is taking place in one place [in Tbilisi]…It would be incorrect to represent this as an uprising,” Sikharulidze said. 
I think Georgian Dream and the government in general…will have enough power, enough control over institutions to deal with protests,” he added. 
What is driving the record-bad flooding that has devastated parts of Russia and Kazakhstan and forced tens of thousands of people to escape the fast-rising water? 
AFP looks at the worst flooding in decades to hit this region: 
Spring and snow 
Spring floods in Russia and northern Kazakhstan "are to be expected and are a regular occurrence," said Maria Shahgedanova, a climate scientist at the University of Reading. 
This region endured similar major floods in 1922, 1942 and 1957 though the current disaster was "extraordinary and all previous 'records' have been surpassed," she added. 
The Ural River flooded Russia's Orenburg region in particular, while the Ishim — which feeds the Siberian regions of Tyumen and Omsk, and northern Kazakhstan — also burst its banks. 
The cause is primarily the rapid onset of warm spring weather meeting lots of winter snow, causing a sudden melt and quick filling of rivers. 
Shahgedanova said about half of all floods in this region have started this way, with another third attributed to rainfall and about 15% due to ice blockages in rivers. 
'Perfect storm' 
This region of Russia and Kazakhstan experienced above-average snowfall this past winter, with snow depth exceeding normal levels by 60% in some areas. 
Shahgedanova said this was followed by a sudden jump in temperatures from below zero to nearly 20 degrees Celsius in a matter of days as spring arrived. 
This rapid shift compounded by heavy rainfall "exacerbated the already critical situation" by quickly turning that excess snow into enormous volumes of water. 
"This is a case of a perfect storm," she said. 
What about climate change? 
Scientists are in agreement that global warming caused by rising levels of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere is driving more extreme weather, including floods. 
But "there is no clear trend towards more frequent floods" in this particular part of Russia and Kazakhstan, said Shahgedanova. 
"I would attribute it... to climatic variability, as opposed to a more long-term change, which may be a natural process," she said. 
A clearer link has been established between global warming and the increased likelihood of floods during the winter months in northwestern Europe, Shahgedanova added. 
"The link between the 2024 floods in Russia and climate change is less obvious," she told AFP. 
Warmer planet 
A warmer planet could, however, be stoking the conditions that might make these floods more intense. 
The UN's climate science body, the IPCC, has reported a substantial decrease in snow cover in the northern hemisphere since the late 1970s with that decline expected to continue. 
"However, there are regional variations in this general trend," Shahgedanova said, adding that in the Volga-Urals and western Siberia heavier but shorter-lived snowfall is forecast in the future. 
At the same time, the IPCC forecasts that temperatures will rise across the planet, with some flood-prone parts of Russia and Kazakhstan to warm at above-average rates during the winter. 
"A combination of deeper snowpack... and earlier and very rapid melt may contribute to the potentially more frequent occurrence of spring floods," she said. 
Other factors? 
Human influences, too, have played a part. 
The bursting of a dam in Orsk, a city of 220,000 near the border of Kazakhstan, caused thousands of homes to be flooded. 
"The main factor in these floods is nature. But the problems of dike construction also matter," said Mikhail Bolgov, a hydrologist at the Russian Academy of Sciences, interviewed by Russian media. 
A reservoir upstream could have absorbed part of the floodwaters but it was already partly full, according to Dmitri Boldyrev, a human rights defender quoted by Russian media. 
"The employees were alarmed enough in January to ask management to begin the flow of water. But they did not want to [do that] because the previous year, there was not enough water," he said. 
An investigation into negligence and violation of safety standards during construction of the dam has been opened. 
In Orenburg, another urban center on the Ural River, some residents also pointed out that large complexes were built — in defiance of regulations — in flood zones. 
What to do in the capital for the first 10 days of May 
April 30, 2021 
Easter 
The Russian Orthodox Church celebrates Easter this year on May 2, which means that there will be lines outside churches on Saturday as people bring baskets of kulich (sweet bread), paskha (a sweet cheese spread), colored eggs and other treats to be blessed. The main Easter service, with the glorious procession around the church, is held towards midnight Saturday night. VDNKh Park will have Easter events for kids and adults, and Danilovsky Market is planning an Oval Day of celebrations which include an egg-shaped pinata, master classes in egg decoration, entertainment by the group Under the Covers (2-5 p.m.), not to mention plenty of homemade Easter food. For more visual delights, head over to the Museum of Decorative and Applied Arts for a lovely show of decorated eggs. 
May 9 is Victory Day 
Last year the pandemic made the jubilee celebrations of the end of The Great Patriotic War a very quiet affair, but this year the parade and air show will take place as usual, starting right at 10 a.m. For good viewing, line up along Nizhniye Mnevniki, Zvenigorodskoye Shosse, and then Tverskaya-Yamskaya and Tverskaya Ulitsa. Unfortunately, the very moving Immortal Regiment parade will take place online this year on May 9, but live in June if the coronavirus pandemic is under control. After the ceremonies, spend the day at the Victory Museum for performances, games, concerts and other activities for kids and adults (not to mention tanks to climb on). There will also be a series of concerts at the Conservatory from May 5-10, with a special musical program on May 9 called Songs. Memory. War.” Information about the programs and ticket purchases here. And at 10 p.m. the fireworks display will begin in nearly 80 spots around the city. VDNKh, the Victory Museum, Sparrow Hills and Zaryadye Park are all good places to watch. 
Spring is sprung 
The weather in Moscow for the May holidays doesn’t look promising. But if the sun comes out, or if you are dying for the colors and scents of spring anyway, head over to the Apothecary Garden just north of the Ring Road on Prospekt Mira. Founded by Peter the Great in 1706, it is an oasis of beauty and peace in the heart of the busy, noisy capital. From April 10 to May 30 they are celebrating their 20th annual Spring festival, when the entire garden is set alight by wave after wave of spring flowers. They are most proud of the 100,000 tulips which are planted to bloom on Victory Day (but may be a bit late this year). The garden also has dozens of flowering trees, including three types of Sakura (cherry trees) — one from Mount Fuji that was gifted to the garden from Tokyo in 2010 — which are already starting to bloom. If it’s cool and rainy, head into one of the hothouses and wander among the palms and vines to find all the magnificent orchids. 
The garden is open every day from 10 a.m. to 9 p.m. For more information about tickets and events, see the garden site. 
For kids: Alpaca Park 
Alpaca Park may be the perfect outing for families over the May break. The two breeds of alpacas in the park were imported from Germany and, like all alpacas, seem to be on earth for humans to hug them. You can wander among them, pet them, feed them, take walks and photographs with them and then go back for more. There is also a film about alpacas and plenty of alpaca souvenirs. Prices range from 800 rubles for entry up to 7500 for a photo session with the park photographer. Not cheap, but the park guarantees that you will leave in a better mood than when you came. For more information, see the site. 
Travel to Venice 
The Neo-Gothic Tsaritsyno Palace and Nature Preserve was founded by Empress Catherine the Great as her country residence. But after a glance at what she had ordered her architects to create, she decided it wasn’t to her taste after all and drove away in her carriage, never to return. The buildings and park slowly slipped into picturesque ruins until several years ago when modern architects restored what was and built on to the original structures. Now it is a very pleasant nature preserve — where the Rope Park will open for the season on May 1 — and also a venue for concerts, events and art shows. 
This week Venice came to town: a rich exhibition called Under the Mask of Venice: Everyday Life in the 18th century. Carnival masks, Murano glassware, gondola decorations, clothing, books, paintings… thousands of items from Venetian museums that you can see, touch, smell, and hear. For more information in Russian and tickets, see the site here. 
Stand-up comedy 
On Mon. May 3 at 9:30 p.m. get in your seats and prepare to laugh. Josh Wilson will explore an audience member's universal truth in Masks. What hill are you ready to die on? Waffles are better than pancakes? "Leave It to Beaver" was the greatest sit-com of all time? Chocolate is terrible? Whatever it is, Wilson will weave a hilarious tale of truth or falsehood. Next Frances Ransome will be in the Fran Zone to keep you laughing over Star Trek, life in Russia, relationships, sex, and everything else that keeps her and us awake at night. Both performances are in English. Tickets and more information available at the site. 
Art revelations 
If you think you know painter Ilya Repin, head over to the old Tretyakov Gallery to see the "Known and Unknown Ilya Repin" show. The modest-sized show punches above its weight to show how the painter most of us consider to be the classic realist evolved, explored and expanded his style to include elements of impressionism and even the avant-garde. 
And then head to the other side of town to see what was behind some closed doors during the Soviet period. While socialist realism reigned in museums and official art galleries and exhibitions, some art lovers in relatively high positions and with extremely discerning tastes defied the law against "speculation" (buying and selling by individuals) to collect works of banned artists. The Museum of Russian Impressionism just opened a new show called "Seekers of Art" to celebrate 14 collectors and their magnificent collections. 
Go Retro at the movies 
On May 3 at 6 p.m. you can sit back in a comfortable seat in a big movie theater with a soda and bag of popcorn and watch "Rear Window" in English with Russian subtitles. Tickets can be ordered here. All weekend at dozens of theaters you can watch the second film in the "Lord of the Ring Trilogy," "The Two Towers," and third film in the series, "The Return of the King." For more information about times and theaters, see the site here. Pioner is also showing both films and several other foreign-language films for kids and adults; for more information see the site here. If you want to go dark, you can watch the David Lynch thriller "Mullhollad Drive" with Naomi Watts and Laura Harring or see Arnold Schwarzenegger in "Total Recall" at a number of theaters. For more listings of foreign language films, see the site msk.subcity.ru. 
On stage 
From April 22 to May 18, Moscow is celebrating a musical Easter Festival at several of the best finest venues in the city, including the Conservatory, Tchaikovsky Hall, the chamber hall of Christ the Savior Church, the Russian Army Theater and Cathedral of the Dormition in the Kremlin. The program includes symphonic, choral and bell-ringing concerts, the last a rare event in the capital. For more information see the site here. 
If you wish to immerse yourself in a bit of madness, you can see The Man From Podolsk" at teatr.doc, where a young man from a small town is arrested without cause in Moscow. But in this reality, the police are the only people who care about his cultural upbringing. The production was directed by Mikhail Ugarov and Igor Stam. 
And while it appears that tickets for the ballet and opera over the holidays were snapped up as fast as Airbnb apartments in Sochi, there are a few tickets available for the charming ballet "La Esmeralda" at the Stanislavsky and Nemirovich-Danchenko Musical Theater. 
A leaked audio recording of senior German army officers discussing the war in Ukraine has caused a diplomatic firestorm and raised serious questions about the security of German military communications. 
Russia declared the recording proves direct involvement of Western countries in the conflict in Ukraine. 
Here is what we know about the intercept. 
What was leaked? 
On March 1, the head of Russia's state-backed RT channel, Margarita Simonyan, posted a 38-minute audio recording on Telegram of what she said was German army officers discussing potential strikes on Crimea. 
The conversation between air force chief Ingo Gerhartz and three high-ranking Bundeswehr officers took place on Feb. 19, according to Simonyan. 
In the recording, discussions can be heard about the possible use by Ukrainian forces of German-made Taurus missiles and their potential impact. 
Kyiv has long been calling on Germany to provide it with Taurus missiles, which can reach targets up to 500 kilometers away. 
But Chancellor Olaf Scholz has so far refused to send the missiles, worried that it would lead to an escalation of the conflict. 
What was discussed? 
In the recording, the Bundeswehr officers can be heard discussing various details about the possible use of Taurus missiles, including specific quantities. 
At one point, they speculate as to whether the missiles could be used to hit a key bridge over the Kerch Strait linking the Russian mainland to Crimea, which was annexed by Russia in 2014. 
The conversation also turns to long-range missiles supplied to Ukraine by France and Britain, with one of the officers referring to British soldiers on the ground. 
The British Prime Minister's Office has said "a small number of personnel" are on the ground in Ukraine to provide security for diplomats and support Ukrainian troops, including medics, but declined to comment on operational matters. 
According to the British Defense Ministry, "Ukraine's use of Storm Shadow (missile) and its targeting processes are the business of the Armed Forces of Ukraine." 
A Ukrainian diplomatic source has also said that "all the European secret services are present in Ukraine — but they are not combat units." 
The source added that when allies supply Kyiv with armaments, "experts are on the ground" to help with training and usage. 
How was it leaked? 
The meeting was held on WebEx, a popular public platform for audio and video meetings. 
According to Defense Minister Boris Pistorius, the platform is legitimately used by the Bundeswehr for certain meetings, with extra security measures. 
The participants may have used the wrong security settings or the wrong platform for such a conversation in general, Pistorius said. 
Roderich Kiesewetter, from Germany's opposition conservatives, has suggested a Russian participant may have had direct access to the conference, though it is not clear how. 
"A number of other conversations will certainly have been intercepted and may be leaked at a later date for Russia's benefit," Kiesewetter told German broadcaster ZDF. 
What does it mean for Scholz? 
The scandal exposes a breach in security that Scholz himself described as "very serious" and risks sowing disunity with Britain and France. 
Thorsten Frei, who heads the opposition conservatives' parliamentary group, told Welt TV that the intercept raises questions about Germany's reliability. 
The conversation also casts doubt on the reasons Scholz has publicly given for refusing to send Taurus missiles to Ukraine. 
Scholz has argued that Germany could not justify matching British and French moves in sending long-range missiles to Ukraine and supporting their deployment. 
But according to the leaked recording, there is no reason why Taurus missiles could not be operated without any direct help from German soldiers. 
How has Russia responded? 
The Kremlin said on Monday that the content of the recording proved Western countries were participating in the conflict in Ukraine. 
"The recording itself suggests that the Bundeswehr is discussing substantively and specifically plans to strike Russian territory," Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. 
Former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev, now deputy head of the Security Council, wrote in a Telegram post that "Germany is preparing for war with Russia." 
What has Germany said? 
According to German experts, almost everything discussed in the recording would already have been known to Russia. 
Marie-Agnes Strack-Zimmermann, chair of the defense committee in Germany's parliament, said Moscow had deliberately leaked the recording in an attempt to stop Germany from supplying Ukraine with Taurus missiles. 
Pistorius has warned that the leak is "part of an information war that Putin is carrying out." 
A government spokesman on Monday dismissed claims Germany was preparing for war with Russia as "absurd... Russian propaganda." 
Pistorius said there may be internal disciplinary proceedings as a result of the breach, but no one would be fired. 
At least 133 people were killed and 152 others were wounded when camouflaged gunmen stormed a concert hall in a Moscow suburb and set fire to the building on Friday night. 
The Islamic State jihadist group has claimed responsibility for the mass killing, which Russian President Vladimir Putin called a "barbaric terrorist attack" and said would not go left unpunished. 
But questions remain as to how the gunmen were able to carry out their attack with seeming ease despite prior warnings from Western governments that such an incident was "imminent." 
We asked people in Moscow the day following the attack who they believed stood to gain from the mass killing and whether they thought the government's response was enough. 
Our guest this time is the head of the climate and energy program at WWF Russia, Alexei Kokorin. Developing countries have hit out at the OECD definition of climate finance, which includes grants, loans, and export finance credits from both private and public sources. We asked Alexei, among other things, what exactly counts as climate finance. 
It’s probably not fair to say that Russian prepositions are the bane of non-native speakers’ existence. There are other contenders for the bane claim — aspect, shifting stress, a few weird verb conjugations — but prepositions present all kinds of problems. They almost all have several, often totally unrelated meanings. They use different cases depending on which meaning is being used. And they add and subtract letters. 
Take the preposition с, also known as со. So when do you add the o”? This is actually pretty easy. Whenever it precedes a word that begins with two consonants in a row, put the o” in. Иди со мной (Come with me). Она говорила со слезами на глазах (She spoke with tears in her eyes). Ты со всеми дружишь (You’re friends with everyone). The reason for the o” is simple. It’s added for ease of pronunciation and clarity — try saying с всеми. 
When we’re learning Russian cases, the preposition c with the instrumental case is banged into our heads. It means with,” and we can remember it because it is probably a distant relative of the Latin cum. This might refer to possessing a physical thing, which might be good for the person possessing it or for someone else: Такая реклама привлечёт туристов с деньгами (This ad will attract tourists with money). Or it can refer to possessing a quality: Он человек с характером (He’s got a mind of his own). Or it can be one thing possessing another thing: Стоит на столе бутылька с молоком (There’s a bottle of milk on the table). 
When you do something with someone, there are two ways of expressing it. If you have something important to tell someone, you might say: После урока я поговорила с преподавателем (After class I spoke with the teacher). When you do something jointly with someone, you describe it as we and him/her/them”: Мы с ним пошли в кино (He and I went to the movies). Какая у нас с вами проблема? (What’s the problem between the two of us?) 
С and the instrumental case is used to describe the thoughts, actions, manner or emotions you experience while doing something. This isn’t as obscure as it may sound – in English we say with great pleasure” or it is with sadness that I announce” and so on. Я с удовольствием приду! (I’d be delighted to come!) Собаки с лаем встречали нас (The dogs greeted us with barking). С этой мыслью я побежал к дедушке (With that thought in mind I ran to my grandfather. 
And, like in English, you can fight with someone as well as you can fight against them: Мы боролись с врагами (We fought with our enemies). 
There are lots of standard phrases, some easy to understand like вместе с тем (along with, at the same time): В доме царит необычная и вместе с тем жизнерадостная атмосфера (In her house the mood is unusual but at the same time cheerful). Some are not so easy to understand, like кровь с молоком (literally blood with milk). This actually means someone with fair skin (not sallow) and rosy cheeks, that is, someone in good health: Я была девушка кровь с молоком” (I was a rosy cheeked little girl). 
The second meaning of the preposition c is from,” which uses the genitive case. I can’t find a good explanation for why this is — the mumbling about Greek via Latin is hard to understand. Luckily we hear it and use it a lot in various set expressions, which makes it easier to remember. Я перевела книгу с русского на английский (I translated the book from Russian to English). Мы взяли наши куртки с вешалки и побежали (We grabbed our jackets from the coat rack and dashed off). С консервированной кукурузы слить жидкость (Drain off the liquid from the canned corn). 
It’s the from” in time expressions: Я работаю с утра до вечера (I work from morning til night). Sometimes we express this a bit differently in English: Уроки начинаются с сентября (The classes begin in September). 
There is one usage that is very easy to get wrong: С вашего разрешения я пойду (With your permission I’ll leave). С Вашего позволения воспользуюсь вашим сообщением (I’d like to quote your commentary, with your permission). 
Finally, с has a third meaning: with the accusative case it indicates the approximate size of something. It means as big as” or the size of” — with the caveat that for some reason it’s almost always an exaggeration. And for us non-native speakers, at first glance looks like a typo: Вчера выпал град с куриное яйцо (Yesterday there was a storm with hail the size of a chicken egg). Дом с гору (The house is as big as a mountain). Орехи громадные – с кулак (The nuts are huge — the size of my fist). 
One of most common — that is, totally incomprehensible — phrases using this expression is с гулькин нос, which means very, very small.” Пользы ему от этого будет с гулькин нос (The benefit he’ll get out of it is miniscule). 
So who was Гулька and why do we remember her nose? 
Actually, it’s a bird: гулька is a diminutive of гуля which is a diminutive of голубь (pigeon), and нос is really клюв (beak). Of course, you’d figure that out, right? 
How small is it? The size of a pigeon’s beak. Sometimes this is fine: Место для этого надо с гулькин нос (You just need a tiny bit of space for it). Sometimes it isn’t fine: Денег заработала с гулькин нос (I earned a miniscule amount of money). 
One wishes: Денег заработала с гору (I earned a mountain of money). 
Russia’s Deputy Defense Minister Timur Ivanov has been arrested in one of the highest-profile corruption cases involving the military since Russia invaded Ukraine more than two years ago. 
Dubbed one of the richest siloviki,” 48-year-old Ivanov has been the subject of Russian media investigations into his and his family’s lavish lifestyles. Ivanov is also seen as a close ally of Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu, sparking debate about possible purges within the Kremlin elite. 
Here is what we know about Timur Ivanov and his corruption case: 
Who is he? 
A Moscow State University graduate who had worked in Russia’s nuclear energy industry in the early 2000s, Ivanov served as Shoigu’s deputy governor of the Moscow region in 2012. After Shoigu was appointed Defense Minister in late 2012, Ivanov was named CEO of the Defense Ministry’s construction company Oboronstroy in 2013 until he was appointed deputy defense minister in May 2016. 
According to the investigative outlet Dossier, Ivanov had gained Shoigu’s favor for allegedly paying for media publications that bolster his public image. 
It is hard to find an official who has done more for Shoigu than Ivanov,” The Guardian quoted an anonymous former colleague of Ivanov’s as saying after the news of his arrest, characterizing the nature of their relationship. 
Forbes Russia in 2018 ranked Ivanov among the wealthiest members of the country’s military and law enforcement elite, estimating his family’s net worth at 136.7 million rubles ($1.5 million). 
Ivanov has been under U.S. and EU sanctions since 2022, when Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. The EU has sanctioned Ivanov as the Defense Ministry’s top official in charge of the construction of military facilities. 
What he was responsible for? 
Ivanov oversaw construction, housing, property management, mortgages and procurement for the Armed Forces. As part of his role, Ivanov was credited with seeing through the construction of the Defense Ministry’s military-themed Patriot Park, which opened in 2016, as well as the Russian Armed Forces’ Main Cathedral located on the park's grounds, which was consecrated in 2020. 
Ivanov was linked to Russia's high-profile reconstruction of the Ukrainian city of Mariupol, which has been occupied by Russian forces after a devastating months-long siege. Activists say the vast sums being poured into the Ukraine offensive have given officials new opportunities to enrich themselves through secretive procurement deals. 
Team Navalny's investigations 
Several independent Russian media outlets have alleged that Ivanov and his family acquired vast wealth through kick-backs on contracts he had secured at the ministry. 
In December 2022, the investigative team of the late opposition figure Alexei Navalny said they had obtained thousands of leaked emails from Ivanov's wife, Svetlana Maniovich, that showed a lavish lifestyle well beyond what his official salary could cover. 
They said she had spent hundreds of thousands of euros on luxury cars, jewelry, clothes, parties, and renting premium property and yachts in the south of France. 
Fantastic investigative work by @teamnavalny led to arrest of Timur Ivanov, a Russian deputy minster of defense. The thoroughly corrupt generals is a pillar of the Putin's regime; massive military spending as means of stealing money was a major reason for the war. pic.twitter.com/r3vVKAzYjt 
Some of the transactions were routed through third parties, including Defense Ministry contractors, it alleged, adding that Ivanov had divorced his wife to allow her to bypass EU sanctions. 
Navalny’s team and Dossier claimed that Ivanov profited from construction projects in Mariupol. 
What is known about Ivanov’s case? 
Ivanov faces up to 15 years in prison for large-scale bribe-taking. It was not immediately clear why law enforcement would target one of the most senior officials with close ties to Shoigu, who is himself considered a close Putin ally. 
This is a serious blow to Shoigu anyway, especially ahead of [Putin’s] inauguration,” the independent outlet Vyorstka quoted an anonymous former Defense Ministry employee as saying. Putin was declared the winner of his fifth overall presidential term last month and is expected to form a new cabinet of ministers after his inauguration on May 7. 
Moscow’s Basmanny District Court said investigators believe Ivanov was part of a "criminal conspiracy" to take a "bribe on a particularly large scale in the form of property services, during the course of contracting and subcontracting work for the Defense Ministry." It did not provide further details. 
Ivanov denies the allegations against him. 
Footage from the courtroom showed Ivanov, in military uniform, standing inside a glass defendant’s cage and listening as the judge placed him in pre-trial detention until July 23. 
On the day of his arrest, Ivanov was seen attending the Defense Ministry advisory board meeting where Shoigu threatened to continue striking Western-supplied weapons in Ukraine. 
State-run and independent media both reported that Ivanov had been on Russian law enforcement officers’ radar since at least 2018. 
On Wednesday, the independent investigative news outlet IStories cited two anonymous sources as claiming that Ivanov is also suspected of state treason. 
No one would have detained him for corruption. [The Kremlin] knew about it long ago. Putin gave approval after he was persuaded about [Ivanov’s alleged] state treason,” one source was quoted as saying. 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov urged reporters to only rely on official information while the investigation was ongoing, calling the IStories report speculation.” 
Official reactions 
Peskov told reporters late Tuesday that both President Vladimir Putin and Shoigu had been informed about Ivanov’s arrest. 
Analysts say the rare arrests of high-profile government figures are usually the result of political infighting. 
Pro-war bloggers have welcomed the news of Ivanov’s arrest. 
Seeing Tchaikovsky's "The Nutcracker" at the Bolshoi Theatre is a New Year's tradition in Moscow — for those lucky enough to get a ticket. 
Each year, hundreds stand in line outside the theatre for as much as 12 hours in hopes of buying tickets for the New Year's performance. 
Due to overwhelming demand, hopeful ticket-buyers must queue for a numbered wristband indicating their spot in line, and then wait in a second line to buy their tickets. 
This year, police said they detained citizens who illegally pre-registered in the queue” after reports emerged of people selling their places in line. 
We asked people why they still try to buy "Nutcracker" tickets despite the dysfunctional system. 
In the wake of Yevgeny Prigozhin and his Wagner Group’s mutiny against Russia’s military leadership, many commentators postulated that the forces of Chechen leader Ramzan Kadyrov would fill their void. With Wagner now effectively banned from operating in Russia and Ukraine, have these Kadyrovtsy actually stepped into the mercenaries’ role? 
To be succinct, they have not. The Kadyrovtsy, which are formally part of Russia’s National Guard, lack the ability to conduct actual military operations, compared to their typical counterterrorism-style policing — and Kadyrov’s ambitions are placed elsewhere. 
The disconnect between the Kadyrovtsy’s reputation as the Chechen strongman’s fearsome personal army and reality has been glaringly obvious throughout the war in Ukraine. Kadyrov’s forces were initially given high-profile assignments, such as an alleged order to assassinate Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and capturing Mariupol and its Azovstal steel plant. They failed to achieve either objective. 
As a result, they are now better known for activities including desertion control, fighting over looted goods and sitting behind the action to preen for propaganda videos for Kadyrov’s Telegram channel. This is to say nothing of their treatment of civilians in Ukraine’s occupied territories, the extent of which is not yet known. But brutality toward civilians is the Kadyrovtsy’s specialty. 
In May, a member of the Sheikh Mansur Battalion, a Chechen volunteer unit defending Ukraine since 2014, said that the Kadyrovtsy were absent from the front line, and there has been little evidence since then that they have been redeployed there. 
This absence is most likely by design. During the first month of the full-scale invasion, the Kadyrovtsy were part of the vanguard force pushing toward Kyiv. Their failure during this operation forced Kadyrov to change tactics and dress down his commanders. 
The Kyiv-front leaders were called back to Chechnya and replaced by Adam Delimkhanov, Kadyrov’s most trusted lieutenant, on the Mariupol front. Delimkhanov was ordered to revert to the clean sweep” operations the Kadyrovtsy are accustomed to, their ineffectiveness as a conventional military force clearly proven. The nature of this SWAT-like operational style also meant that the Chechen leader’s soldiers stayed away from the intensity of the front line. 
Kadyrov is not involved in the war because he shares Putin’s genocidal intent — he is instead primarily motivated by what he can get out of it. While the Azovstal plant was still under siege, Kadyrov was negotiating for significant financial stakes in Mariupol and offering to help with the Donetsk region’s reconstruction. These schemes have proved profitable. The Russian Spetsnaz University, Kadyrov’s pet project and home of the Akhmat Group special forces, reported that its revenue tripled last year. More recently, Kadyrov’s nephew was appointed as the head of Danone Russia after it was nationalized in July. 
Further, Kadyrov has used the war to assert himself as a federal political actor and to promote his children within Chechnya, both as public figures and in the state apparatus. These are parts of his efforts to solidify his family’s position, given the current political uncertainty in Russia and paranoia about a possible new insurgency in his North Caucasus republic. 
That the Kadyrovtsy have not stepped into Wagner’s role is abundantly clear from what they have been doing since the mercenaries’ failed rebellion — essentially continuing their pre-mutiny activities. 
While the Kadyrovtsy were reported to have withdrawn from Russia’s Belgorod region on June 24 for an undisclosed reason, in reality they did not. On June 27, Zapad-Akhmat and Interior Ministry units were still operating in the Belgorod towns of Shchetinovka and Bogun-Gorodok. By July 3, they were in Naumovka, also in Russia. The Kadyrovtsy contingent seemingly did not arrive in Ukraine until July 8, claiming to be located near Odnorobovka on the Kharkiv front. 
Two weeks later, they were back in Belgorod, chasing scumbags from Ukraine'' who attacked Russian Defense Ministry vehicles in the region. This apparently referred to a cross-border incursion by Chechen rebels fighting on the side of Ukraine. 
On July 31, these Kadyrovtsy units purportedly launched a preemptive attack on Ukrainian forces in Sotnitskii Kasachok, just across the border from Belgorod. In a video of the attack, one strike was geolocated to have hit a bush in Belgorod — missing Ukrainian territory altogether. They have continued conducting such actions in the border region. 
The Akhmat Group special forces, which Kadyrov at one point hoped would become his own competitor to Wagner, was most expected to fill the operational gaps left by Prigozhin’s mercenaries. While the Akhmat Group may be engaged in fighting, the Kadyrovtsy, still, are not. The number of Chechen soldiers in Akhmat Group has dwindled since its creation, with the remaining ethnic Chechens kept from the front lines and non-Chechens forced to do the fighting, according to members of the unit captured by Ukrainian forces. 
The Akhmat Group is the most threatening unit from Chechnya since Wagner left Ukraine. Not because of expectations that they would replace the mercenary outfit, but because they have captured a number of Ukrainian soldiers. Forced interviews with these prisoners of war can be found on the Telegram channels of Kadyrov and Akhmat Group commander Apti Alaudinov. the Akhmat Group’s capture of Ukrainian soldiers should raise grave concerns over their treatment, especially as previous prisoners of war have been taken to Chechnya to meet Kadyrov. 
At the beginning of the month, the Sever-Akhmat battalion was fighting on its own near their headquarters in the largely destroyed town of Marinka in eastern Ukraine, eventually joining Akhmat Group near Kleshcheevka. Toward the end of July, the unit’s messaging on its official Telegram channel shifted in tone, suddenly discussing Ukraine’s serious attempts to breach the line. A few days later, rumors began to swirl that Sever-Akhmat sustained significant casualties, which the battalion’s commanders condemned. While the Kadyrov administration’s denials should not be trusted, one cannot fully believe Ukrainian claims of mass casualties among the Kadyrovtsy without visual confirmation or reports leaking out of Chechnya. 
Meanwhile, Vostok-Akhmat has been relatively quiet since Wagner’s failed rebellion. They were said to be positioned somewhere on the Orekhov front on July 14. A month later, they remain on that front, supposedly located near the village of Rabotyne. Besides filming with the Defense Ministry’s television channel Zvezda, it is unclear how they have been spending their time. 
Kadyrov has only mentioned two National Guard units, the core of the Kadyrovtsy, serving on the front line since Prigozhin’s mutiny. The Akhmat-1 special unit was declared to be fighting on the Zaporizhzhia front, while the 94th Regiment had no location given. Kadyrov claimed earlier that they were engaged on all lines of contact.” Considering how risk-averse Kadyrov is in relation to his internal security forces, it is doubtful that his units, the only two he dares to position in Ukraine, are actually on the front lines. 
Finally, and of greatest concern, are reports that unspecified Kadyrovtsy units have been involved in two shootouts with other Russian soldiers since the start of August. As a result of the first incident, seven villagers in Urzuf were killed, along with several soldiers. 
A few days after the first shootout, another group of Kadyrovtsy fought with soldiers from Dagestan in Mikhailovka, Zaporizhzhia region. In all, 20 people died and 40 more were injured. The Kadyrovtsy were reportedly punished for the shootout by being sent to the front line. 
Bored and frustrated Kadyrovtsy are a recipe for disaster. And when these units are located behind the front lines, they are in closer proximity to civilians, increasing the risks for non-combatant casualties. 
Frankly, the Kadyrovtsy will never fill the void left by Wagner, nor will they even come close to doing so. 
Unlike Prigozhin, Kadyrov has domestic security concerns to consider, namely the threat of a renewed insurgency in Chechnya, which he has ruled with an iron fist following two separatist wars against Moscow in the 1990s and 2000s. 
And as Dr. Emil Aslan, a professor of security studies at Charles University in Prague, has said, Kadyrov cannot afford to suffer losses on the scale of Wagner’s hemorrhaging of fighters in the battle for Bakhmut. As long as the casualty rate is high, the Chechen leader will avoid risking his troops on the front line as much as he can. 
However, this means that they will continue to pose a very real threat to Ukrainian civilians that must not be discounted. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Over the past couple of weeks, events in Chechnya have shown the Kadyrov regime to be less than the beacon of order and stability it likes to portray itself as. Mass abductions coinciding with changes in top personnel have made the republic appear to be in tumult. 
Such an interpretation, however, would be misleading, playing into the pitfalls of gauging the stability of authoritarian systems. If anything, these events underscore the current strength of the Kadyrov regime. 
On May 6, Chechen opposition blogger Tumso Abdurakhmanov shared a video in which a man in a suburb of Grozny burned a car that bore symbols associated with Adam Kadyrov, Ramzan’s 16-year-old son who is notorious for emulating his father. The authorities almost immediately began hunting for the perpetrator of this act of protest. 
Around ninety people were abducted from Starye Atagi and Shali in connection with the burning. Some victims have been released, although many remain in custody at an unknown location. One of the abducted, Abdullakh Magomadov, was killed through torture, with another death believed to be connected to the abductions. 
The authorities also targeted the relatives of suspects, a tactic intended to dissuade onlookers from behavior that could have violent repercussions for their loved ones and to incentivize families to intervene against rebellious behavior. This mass kidnapping alone makes May 2024 the worst month for abductions in Chechnya in over a year, according to data compiled by the opposition movement 1ADAT. 
Several commentators have argued that this level of response illustrates the regime’s weakness. But this enters the pitfall of how stability and strength are thought of in authoritarian regimes. Strength is implicitly assumed to be rooted in a regime’s popular legitimacy. Thus, crackdowns on public demonstrations are thought to indicate weakness. While this may be accurate in countries where the state is founded on popularity, this is by no means a guarantee in regimes like Kadyrov’s and Putin’s that are built entirely on violence. 
The mass abduction of dozens connected to the fire starter is a straightforward continuation of Kadyrov’s counterinsurgency strategy. 
It differs considerably from perhaps the most comparable incident, December 2022’s raids in Urus-Martan. Then, a severe crackdown came in the wake of societal ridicule at a fight between members of the Kadyrovtsy. That the public viewed Kadyrov’s personal militia as a joke directly undermined the regime’s ability to exercise force, which they predominantly do by seeking to create an atmosphere of fear. 
In contrast, the targeted symbolic attack on Adam Kadyrov undermined the regime in a more indirect way. If anything, rather than depicting a republic in chaos, the scope of the retribution speaks to Adam’s newfound and growing influence. While he lacks a formal role in politics, his shadow looms large enough to inspire such terror. 
The series of high-level resignations and re-appointments may make the Kadyrov regime look unstable, but they are evidence of its current authoritarian strength. These personnel moves were to clear a path for the rise of the new generation. The speaker of parliament remains unfilled, with veteran official Shaid Zhamaldaev temporarily serving in this role. The re-shuffling is not yet complete. 
The two main movers are the former Chechen parliament speaker, now Prime Minister Magomed Daudov and the man he succeeded, Muslim Khuchiev. This move kept Daudov in Chechnya, where he managed the regime’s affairs for a decade. However, the regime apparently sought a different appointment, advocating through Grozny-aligned media for Daudov to be appointed head of Ingushetia. Kadyrov, who has long pursued greater influence over the neighboring republic, attributed the rumors to Ingush provocateurs.” 
Kuchiev has now joined the office of Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin as an advisor. This promotes yet another of Kadyrov’s loyal, veteran agents into the federal ministries, along with Deputy Chief of the Russian Armed Forces’ Main Military-Political Directorate Apti Alaudinov and advisor to the emergency services minister Daniil Martynov. 
Khuchiev and Daudov’s re-assignments cleared the path for the new generation to continue their rise within Chechnya. The eldest Kadyrov son, Akhmat, became the physical culture and sport minister, with his old job as youth politics minister taken over by a son of Ramzan Kadyrov’s oldest friend. Finally, Temirlan Khuchiev, son of the ex-Prime Minister, became the industry and energy minister. 
Both the precise appointments and their timing came as a surprise. What exactly motivated this abrupt flurry of activity continues to remain a mystery, made even greater due to its coinciding with the ongoing purge of the Defense Ministry after President Putin assembled his new government. The general direction of the moves comes as no surprise. 
The generational transition in the republic has long been underway and is only going to continue. This integration and promotion of the old guard’s children within the regime is the most compelling explanation for the turnover, given the currently available information. 
Conducting so many simultaneous personnel changes unprompted — as this seemingly was — can only come from a place of strength, even if the regime is in turmoil. I will concede that it does not hurt when most of your officials are engaged less meaningfully in their roles, relying instead on the work of lower ministerial employees. Regardless, mass reshuffles typically provoke an image of instability — look at the Russian Defense Ministry. 
Mishustin’s rapid integration of Khuchiev emphasizes the strength of Kadyrov’s regime at the federal level. Not just anyone could have brought about such a fast transition for their regional prime minister, no matter how experienced they may be. That this move comes on the back of Alaudinov’s promotion and the Kremlin’s purge of the Defense Ministry only serves to further underscore Kadyrov’s current strength. 
As the generational transition continues, observers must brace themselves for more raids. Large-scale ministerial reshuffles will eventually happen less frequently but, for now, what happens in the Kremlin will accompany the changing bureaucratic guard in the Kadyrov regime. A similar occurrence should be expected around the end of this year after Ali Kadyrov, Ramzan’s second son, comes of age in December. 
The fact remains that, while many wish to see Chechnya become unstable for myriad reasons, the Kadyrov regime remains strong. Despite what it may seem, neither the mass abductions nor the personnel moves truly create instability. However, if more acts of resistance occur, they could inspire more people to escalate the amount of pressure piled on to the regime. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
Maksim Solius, an editor at independent investigative media outlet iStories, talks about how freedom of speech was lost in Russia and the difficulties facing modern Russian journalists. 
This lecture at Masaryk University, Brno, is part of a series of lectures organized by The Moscow Times at European universities and given by Russian media professionals. 
It is widely assumed that Russia possesses unparalleled powers of manipulation, and that its ubiquitous propaganda is wreaking havoc on public opinion around the world. 
In reality, however, Russian propaganda is far from the sophisticated machine it is made out to be. To see why, it is useful to look back on how its two proxies in Ukraine, the so-called People’s Republics of Donetsk and Luhansk, botched every opportunity to justify their existence. 
The Russian-Ukrainian war started in early 2014 with the annexation of Crimea and the emergence of these People’s Republics. The anti-terrorist operation” Ukraine’s interim government launched to drive out the insurgents was more or less successful until Russia began to pour additional military and financial resources into Donbas, leading eventually to an uneasy ceasefire, with swaths of the region remaining under the separatist control. This provided the new Donbas leadership, consisting mostly of two-bit scam artists, small-time local gangsters, and an occasional committed ideologue, with the opportunity to make the case that Donbas did not belong with Ukraine. 
Initially, propagandistic efforts in this direction were ideological. Pavel Gubarev, a Ukrainian-born former member of a neo-Nazi paramilitary group, proclaimed the State of Novorossiya at a congress held in Donetsk in May of 2014. Novorossiya, which means New Russia”, refers to Ukrainian territories that were previously part of the Russian Empire. The concept has existed since the 1800s, but because it was never popular it lacked the necessary potency to be a replacement ideology for the modern conception of the Ukrainian nation. 
Nonetheless, according to Gubarev, the State of Novorossiya would represent not only the liberation from the yoke of a fascist junta [i.e., the new government in Kyiv], but also the construction of a new, truly fair, scientifically and technologically developed state”. 
However, despite support from the well-known far-right ideologue Aleksandr Dugin, Gubarev’s pet project died a whimpering death after the downing of flight MH17 by Donetsk-based insurgents in July 2014. Gubarev himself narrowly survived a series of assassination attempts and left the Donbas political scene soon after. 
With Gubarev gone and the MH17 disaster rendering the Kremlin unsure how to proceed with the political future of the Donbas Republics, power fell into the hands of Igor Plotnitskiy in Luhansk and Aleksandr Zakharchenko in Donetsk. Neither man had the gift of gab but possessed enough brawn to carry out the Kremlin’s instructions. However, Moscow remained non-committal in providing justification for why the Republics should see themselves as separate from Ukraine. 
Ideological projects such as Novorossiya were off the table until the Kremlin figured out what to do. This meant that the Republics’ leadership was free to speak ill of Ukraine and the Kyiv Regime” with great enthusiasm. Eventually, Moscow’s answer came in the form of annexation in September 2022. 
As part of my research, I analyzed about 80,000 news articles published by separatist media outlets between 2014 and 2018, many of which repeated familiar tropes: that the Euromaidan revolution as a fascist coup by the CIA, the US as an evil puppet master, and Ukraine as an oppressive, genocidal state. 
The objective was to delegitimize Ukraine’s new government and sow division, hoping especially to convince Russian-speaking Ukrainians that there was no future for them in Ukraine. This effort failed: studies show that the Euromaidan revolution and the subsequent events catalyzed a cohesive, civic Ukrainian identity, rather than splitting society apart. 
What was less clear was what identity should replace this now-enemy. Here, neither the Kremlin nor the Donbas leadership had any idea how to proceed. The Donbas region has a long and storied history, having been fiercely autonomous since it was first settled in the 16- and 1700s. Hiroaki Kuromiya, a well-known historian of Donbas, described the region as the last frontier of Europe” not only due to its location on the outer edges of the European map but also because it was the least amenable to European cultural and political influence. 
As it developed into the economic motor of the Russian Empire (and later the Soviet Union) due to its abundant natural resources (mainly coal), Donbas became a haven for entrepreneurs, but also anarchists and criminals. On top of this, the Cossacks who long ruled the region provided its residents with a source of identity to fall back on when faced with the turbulent politics of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries. 
All of this indicates that the Donbas leadership had a reservoir of identity narratives at its disposal to build ideological support, but let it go to waste. When analyzing the aforementioned articles by separatist news outlets, I found no coherent story about who the separatists were and who they were opposing. A few haphazard attempts were made, but if anything these were more silly than serious. 
For example, in February 2015, the legislature of the Donetsk People’s Republic adopted a memorandum declaring itself the spiritual successor to the so-called Donetsk-Kryvyi Rih Soviet Republic (DKR), which existed as a self-declared Soviet Republic for about 40 days in February and March 1918, before being incorporated into the Ukrainian SSR. However, despite political leaders in both Donetsk and Luhansk waxing poetic about the supposed historical continuity between the DKR and the present day, the project never went anywhere. It was rarely – if ever – mentioned in media output or official communications. 
In another example, Aleksandr Zakharchenko (the head of the Donetsk People’s Republic until his ouster in 2018 by way of a car bomb) held an unexpected press conference in July 2017, declaring the Ukrainian state null and void. Instead, he proclaimed, Ukraine would henceforth be called Malorossiya” (Little Russia), a term that was sometimes used for the Cossack Hetmanate in Tsarist times. In Zakharchenko’s mind, this could serve as a basis for building an identity disconnected from Ukrainian nationhood. He claimed to have support from representatives from every region of Ukraine (except Crimea), as well as his own colleagues in Donetsk and Luhansk. 
This was a lie, or at least a comical exaggeration. The so-called representatives from across Ukraine were Zakharchenko’s personal friends, and even his colleagues reacted with disdain rather than enthusiasm. The Kremlin itself was also caught off guard by Zakharchenko’s sudden unwillingness to follow their instructions, and is alleged to have been involved in his assassination in a Donetsk café about a year later. 
The Kremlin and its operatives in Donbas took propaganda very seriously, but failed to make it work. Not only were few Ukrainians convinced that their new government in Kyiv was full of fascist CIA puppets, but the separatists’ haphazard and clumsy nature of their efforts to present an alternative to Ukrainian identity backfired. 
The Kremlin bought into its own propaganda so much that it believed many Ukrainians would join the invading Russians in battle. The overwhelming lack of support among the very people it professed to come to save should make it realize that Ukrainians have little appetite for returning to the Russian fold. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
No one wants to negotiate with Russia,” President Vladimir Putin has complained several times on camera in recent days. He would like to reach a peace agreement or a ceasefire, he claims, but there are no negotiations. 
Why are there no negotiations with Putin? This question is not as simple as it may appear. Nevertheless, there are two main reasons. 
The first reason, the "image of the war," is obvious, but Putin does not understand it, and no one can explain it to him. 
The second reason, which is much more significant, is structural: Putin lacks the ability to take on binding commitments. In reality, it's precisely this structural reason that impedes negotiations. 
The image of the war 
Since Feb. 24, 2022, the first day of the Russo-Ukrainian war, the main images of the war in the international media have been of residential buildings in Ukrainian cities destroyed by Russian rockets; civilians killed and wounded; and women, children and elderly refugees. For any ordinary person, this war is associated with photographs of peaceful Ukrainian civilians executed by Russian soldiers in Bucha, mass graves uncovered in liberated Lyman and Irpin, and flooded houses after the destruction of the Kakhovka dam. And the responsibility for all of this falls on Putin and his ministers and generals. No matter how cynical a Western politician might be, they cannot negotiate with Putin, because the average person in their country sees what is happening on the frontlines and in the rear. How can you negotiate with those who are responsible for this war? 
The fact that the war is being broadcast in real-time was obviously something that those who prepared and launched it did not expect. Columns of Russian tanks on Ukrainian roads, missile and bomb strikes on residential areas and civilian infrastructure — all of this is shown on television screens and newspaper front pages at the frequency at which they happen. While not shown live, the murders of civilians in Bucha and Irpin have since been documented by dozens of news agencies and international organizations. This is the first war in human history that the world is observing live, as it unfolds. Those who initiated this war are naturally perceived as criminals, not as partners for negotiation. 
The difficulty for Putin and his closest associates is that they, of course, do not understand the image of the war that is seen by the whole world. They live in their own specially crafted reality, in which there were no chambers for torturing detainees during the occupation of Kherson, no executions of civilians and unarmed Russian prisoners of war in Bucha, and no Russian aerial strike on the Mariupol theater, where women and children sought refuge from bombings. Not only does this not exist in Putin's world, but even if he had an adequate adviser now, he couldn't tell Putin about it! In Putin's Russia, speaking the truth about the war is forbidden — even if it is necessary for cynical, pragmatic reasons. 
Putin should be told that in order to create a possibility for negotiations, he needs to publicly appoint investigations into the crimes committed in the occupied and subsequently liberated territories. The leadership of the 64th Motorized Rifle Brigade and perhaps the entire 35th and 36th Armies of the Eastern Military District, the 331st and 137th Airborne Regiments, the 104th and 234th Assault Landing Regiments, and other military units responsible for the killings of civilians in Bucha should be brought to trial. Officers and soldiers directly responsible for these crimes should be appropriately punished. The same goes for other key episodes. 
The same applies to those who could engage in negotiations. Who would negotiate with Lavrov, Polyanskiy, Antonov, and other diplomats” who lied to the whole world about Bucha with a straight face? 
But who can say this to Putin? Who can answer his question, Why aren't they negotiating with us?” if the answer to this question is considered a crime under his laws? The information bubble” in which Putin and his entourage live is not a journalistic metaphor. It consists of a powerful institutional structure, laws, and people who are imprisoned based on those laws. Putin does not know how the whole world perceives the Russo-Ukrainian war, and he cannot find out. 
The structural reason 
The war's image is an important reason why Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and Western politicians are not negotiating with Putin, but it is not the most important. Yes, negotiating with someone who ordered an aggressive war and demands recognition of his conquered territories is difficult due to internal political constraints. It's challenging but possible. Negotiations were once conducted with Pol Pot, a bloodthirsty maniac worse than Stalin or Mao; with Gaddafi, a dictator almost as bloody; with Arafat, responsible for terrorist attacks against civilians; and other leaders too toxic to negotiate with publicly. After all, professional diplomats are essentially doctors who treat patients regardless of their moral qualities. 
The difficulty lies in the fact that negotiations with Putin are currently pointless because he cannot make any meaningful commitments. He can make promises in words, but in reality, these promises are worthless. Over his 20-year rule, he has promised practically everything — his signature is on the border treaty with Ukraine, for example. And he violated all of it. Over the past two years, he has broken almost every promise he made. Again, Putin himself may not even know about this. I suspect it would be a terrible risk for his subordinates to remind him of what he said a month, a year, or even a week ago. But everyone else knows that he breaks all of his promises. No matter how pragmatic and cynical a negotiator might be, what is the point of such negotiations? 
Of course, Putin's inability to make binding commitments is not his personal problem. It is an institutional one. This is where the parliament would come in handy, but it is completely destroyed — in the sense that everyone knows that whatever laws the deputies may pass, they can cancel them tomorrow at the administration’s request. 
Unlike countries where parliaments work, in the Russia of 2023, the parliament is not a source of independent guarantees. It is not a mechanism that can provide binding commitments. The same applies to any Russian institution, be it ministries or regional administrations. They cannot be a source of independent guarantees. Putin's promises, whatever they may be, cannot be backed up by anything. 
It is not surprising that no one in the West counts on negotiations with Putin. See above; how can you negotiate with someone who will inevitably violate the agreements? Even if he does not want to violate them now and genuinely believes in them, nothing in Russia can compel him to keep those agreements. That is precisely why the current plan — no negotiations until the defeat of Russian forces on Ukrainian territory, and post-war guarantees of Ukraine's security through NATO membership — appears to be the only realistic option, even for the most hardened cynics. 
The views expressed in opinion pieces do not necessarily reflect the position of The Moscow Times. 
I think cooking is very close to politics,” Witold Szabłowski told The Moscow Times. And politics is very close to cooking. What do people eat before they send their soldiers to war? What do they eat before they set the world on fire?” 
What’s Cooking in the Kremlin?” is the sixth book from the prolific Polish journalist and author Witold Szabłowski, and it has been shortlisted for the André Simon Food and Drink Book Awards. His previous works How to Feed a Dictator” and Dancing Bears” won praise for their imaginative attacks on authoritarianism, and this latest serving does not disappoint. 
Beginning with the descendants of the Imperial Russian chefs and ending in the Putin era, Szabłowski tracks down cooks who served the rich and powerful – and those who kept ordinary bellies full (or tried to) throughout the country’s history. Into the mix are personal stories of the cooks of Chernobyl nuclear power plant, a baker who survived the Siege of Leningrad, the chefs behind the Soviet Union’s Last Supper” at a dacha in Belarus, and many more. 
The author plays down the success of his interviews as mere stubbornness,” but the level of detail is truly remarkable. Szabłowski said that his own brief stint as a chef encouraged his more guarded interviewees to open up by giving them a common language. If you know how to chop, how to cut, if you know about proportions and spices, it makes things easier with chefs,” he explains. 
All the same, many Russians were suspicious of a Pole asking lots of questions,” and Szabłowski had to push hard to gain access to sensitive sites like the space station, Roskosmos. The book took three years to write, and spanned ten trips to Ukraine, eight to Belarus, and fifteen to pre-war Russia, where the author is no longer welcome. 
The recipes range from the lavish to the stark. We learn that Tsar Nicholas’s favourite lunch was pasta with turtle doves,” while soldiers on the Eastern front roasted snails on a spit, and that Lenin’s wife had a three-meal repertoire: scrambled eggs with one egg, two eggs, or three. 
Some of book’s most moving passages include anti-recipes” from times of famine in Ukraine and Russia. Hanna Basaraba, one of the last survivors of the Holodomor, describes how she and her family lived off weeds during the man-made famine in the 1930s. 
Now and then one of the children I played with would just disappear. They stopped coming to nursery school. Nobody ever asked what had happened – it was obvious.” 
Szabłowski witnessed the last meeting between Hanna and her cousin Vera, another survivor who died shortly after telling her story. These historic testimonies are particularly poignant as Russia continues to strike villages that endured the Great Famine. 
There is plenty of humour in these pages, but the tone is never jarring. A stand-out character is Viktor Belyaev, a chef who worked at the Kremlin for 40 years, and served Brezhnev, Gorbachev, Yeltsin, Putin, and countless foreign leaders and dignitaries. In his interview with The Moscow Times, Szabłowski speaks warmly of his friendship with Belyaev, who died of Covid in 2022. 
The author described the master chef as the good spirit” of this book. He ate as Belyaev’s guest and singled out his signature blinchiki as incredible.” These were the pancakes that Margaret Thatcher adored. 
In a poignant afterword, Szabłowski explains that some of the cooks he interviewed have stopped speaking to him since the full-scale invasion. 
That’s how propaganda works,” he said. I miss my trips to Russia and talking to Russians, but I wasn’t surprised. […] Russia has to remove Lenin from Red Square: this is a country that keeps [the body of] a mass murderer at the heart of its capital.” 
The only drawback is the framing of the UK and US editions. The Polish original is subtitled How to Build an Empire with a Knife, Ladle, and Fork,” making it clear that this is a book about imperialism and all its follies. Ukrainians in 2024 might hesitate to pick up this book, with its blood red Kremlinology” cover – which is a shame, as the passages about Ukraine, and Tatar Crimea are among the writer’s finest. 
What's Cooking in the Kremlin: From Rasputin to Putin, How Russia Built an Empire with a Knife and Fork" 
From Chapter XII The First Return of Viktor Belyaev 
I cooked for Nixon for several days and he was very satisfied, until one day he simply swung by the kitchen. From the doorway he asked, Who’s the chef here?” I was summoned. Good morning,” I stammered in English. He must have been expecting some big fat Ivan with a mustache. And here I was. A guy from Izmaylovo. He was so pleased to be able to talk to a young Russian that he started coming by every day. And he questioned me: What was life like for young people? How long did I wait for an apartment? How much did this or that cost? I felt awkward about him coming to see me like that, but the boss said it was all right, there was nothing wrong with it. And that I should talk to him if that was what he wanted. 
One day I plucked up the courage to say I was pleased that he liked my food. But that in my view he was missing the best feature of Russian cooking. 
Oh?” he said, intrigued. What is that?” 
The soups, Mr. President,” I said, because he always left the soup. Russia is famous for its delicious soups. We have borscht, we have solyanka, we have ukha. They’re all very good for you. Especially for men,” I said. 
It’s too late for me now,” he said, shrugging. 
Mr. President,” I replied, it’s never too late. Soups are rejuvenating. Give them a try.” 
I knew he was a keen angler and loved fish, so the next day I made ukha for him. He ate it, asked for a second helping, and ate that too. 
It’s really good,” he told me. I think I’ll have to find myself a Russian cook in America.” He smiled. 
But the most extraordinary thing happened on the final day of Nixon’s visit, when he asked me to show him Moscow. My boss agreed, so Nixon took just one bodyguard, and off we went. He didn’t want to see the historical sights; he wanted to see how normal people lived. We went to the Cheryomushki District, because he’d been there before with Brezhnev several years earlier. When we got there Nixon asked where the local market was—he remembered it from that previous visit. He imagined that because he was without his entourage, with just a bodyguard and me, no one would recognize him and he’d get a look at ordinary life. So we went to the Cheryomushki market. 
Of course everyone there recognized him, and a swarm of people came running up, giving him flowers, fruit, vegetables, and honey. I had to hold it all then lug it around, while Nixon just about wept with emotion. 
At some point a very old woman emerged from the crowd, the kind of woman who sits at the market selling garlic and a few sunflower seeds to supplement her pension. She gave him the entire sunflower head that she had for sale. And this is what she said: Mr. President, I have nothing else to give you. But I’d like to ask you for one thing in exchange. I lost two sons in the war. War is the most terrible thing that can happen on earth. Please, please, do everything you can to make sure there are no more wars.” 
Nixon hugged her and gave her some sort of answer, but he was clearly very moved. We returned to the villa where he was staying, but he spent a long time walking around the park, turning it all over in his head. 
Then I made him farewell ukha, and he suggested we have our photograph taken together and then left. 
7. 
I have overslept and been late for work only once in my life, but it was the worst possible occasion, because that day I was making breakfast for Margaret Thatcher. She was in Moscow with an entire delegation. They’d stayed up until late at night, and their flight home was at five a.m. The boss had suggested I sleep over at the Kremlin, on a sofa. But I can’t bear sleeping away from home, Witold. So I thanked him, and a Kremlin car took me home. I left work at one a.m., though I’d have to be back again at 3:30. I ordered a car from the Kremlin, set my alarm clock . . . and didn’t hear it ring. 
I woke up at 3:30—and started to panic. I alerted the entire family, my wife and children; my wife ironed my shirt, and my mom, who lived with us, helped me put on my pants. And I called the Kremlin housekeeper to explain what had happened and asked: Please open a can of peas, beat the eggs for the pancakes, and start boiling the water for me so it’s simmering by the time I arrive. 
But the worst was ahead of me—the car. This was Moscow in the 1980s—there were no taxis, and it was an hour on foot to the Kremlin. And the rule for the Kremlin chauffeurs who drove around the city collecting the staff was that they waited for a maximum of half an hour. If you didn’t show up in that time, it was your problem. You’d do the explaining to your boss. 
So I thought to myself, there’s no chance the car is still there. With my heart in my throat, I called the Kremlin dispatcher, praying for my good friend Luba to be on duty. 
It was Luba who picked up. Everything was all right now. 
Luba, I overslept!” I screamed. And we’ve got Margaret Thatcher! Do something, help, I have to make her breakfast!” 
Ooh,” said Luba, that’s bad.” 
And she sent me another car. I put on my shirt and tie, ran downstairs, got into the car and . . . a second one drove up. It turned out the driver had made an exception and had waited for me. 
So off we went, with me in one car and the other behind us. At the entrance to the Kremlin the soldiers saluted us, I saluted back—and began to laugh. Those guards gave me such a look. 
What the hell, Viktor, why scare us like that? We thought it was some bigwig coming in.” 
You’ll soon get used to it, boys,” I replied. From now on I’m always going to travel this way.” That made them laugh. 
Then I raced upstairs. Blinis, appetizers, cheese, sausage, ham—I quickly sliced it all. 
I made it in time by a hair. 
Thatcher came to thank me for the cooking, just as Nixon had. In fact, it was funny, because the first time she was due to come, the other chefs had told me there was no need to be concerned because she never ate what we cooked for her. They said she had no chef at home but did her own cooking, and she wasn’t fond of food cooked by others. 
So for her first breakfast in Moscow I made a little of everything, but I was ready for her either to eat nothing at all or to just jab her fork at her plate a bit. I gave her two salads, a little buckwheat, some cold meat, toast, jam, and pancakes—blinis—and got on with making the lunch. 
Imagine my surprise ten minutes later when the waiter came in with an empty plate—the blinis were gone. 
She wants some more,” he said. 
What the heck—more? But I thought she wasn’t going to eat anything! 
In a panic I cracked some eggs, mixed them with water, milk, and flour, and fried two more blinis at top speed. The waiter served them, then came back in. 
And again.” 
I think she had eight of them. Even her colleagues were surprised she liked them so much. 
Kazakh authorities this month arrested anti-war activist and musician Ayhal Ammosov, a Russian national hailing from the Far East republic of Sakha (Yakutia). 
Though Ammosov’s name might be known to few abroad and elsewhere in Russia, he is something of a local celebrity in his native Sakha, first rising to prominence as an eccentric punk frontman and later becoming one of the region’s most noticeable critics of the invasion of Ukraine. 
Ammosov — whose legal name is Igor Ivanov — fled Sakha for Kazakhstan at the end of last year after authorities opened a criminal investigation against him on suspicion of spreading fake news” about the Russian army. 
Despite his physical absence from the country, he continued to face pressure from the Russian authorities. 
In February, a new criminal case accusing Ammosov of incitement to commit acts of terrorism” was opened in his home city of Yakutsk, according to his lawyer, Murat Adam. Soon after, the musician was added to Russia’s terrorists and extremists” register and authorities issued a warrant for his arrest. 
Adam told The Moscow Times that this happened because Ammosov had written on social media that Russian citizens could give him a gift by setting military enlistment offices on fire to show their protest against all war actions committed by Russia against Ukraine.” 
A local court in Almaty, Kazakhstan’s largest city, ordered Ammasov to 40 days of arrest on Oct. 9 in connection with a Russian extradition request. His time in detention is likely to be extended and a subsequent deportation to Russia can’t be ruled out, his lawyer said. 
If deported, the 31-year-old activist could face up to seven years in prison. 
A poet and a songwriter, Ammosov was well-known among Sakha’s progressive-minded youth long before the start of the Ukraine war. Even then, his views could be deemed too radical for the taste of Russian officials. 
As the frontman of punk band Crispy Newspaper, Ammosov’s lyrics spoke of indigenous rights, environmental issues and corruption and didn’t shy away from criticizing Yakutian business giant Alrosa, the world’s largest diamond mining company. Most of his songs were written in the indigenous Sakha language. 
Already then he was spreading awareness about social issues among young people,” said Sargylana Kondakova, co-founder of the Free Yakutia Foundation, the region’s largest anti-war movement. 
In a rare interview with the independent news outlet Holod published in February, Ammosov said he had harbored an interest in politics from an early age. He explained that his pseudonym is an homage to indigenous Sakha traditions and the Yakut revolutionary Maxim Ammosov, one of the founding fathers of the Yakut Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, who was killed in Stalin’s Great Purge. 
Ammosov’s anti-war activism, in turn, was an automatic reaction to Russia’s attack on Ukraine. 
In addition to distributing anti-war leaflets and stickers in Sakha’s capital, Yakutsk, Ammosov staged a number of one-person pickets in the first few months of the war. 
One of his most viral stunts was a picket in front of a funeral services office where he held up a picture of a coffin captioned The groom has arrived” — a reference to the film Cargo 200” — to highlight the steep death toll among Russian servicemen in Ukraine. 
Local security forces soon opened a slew of administrative cases against Ammosov, accusing him of discrediting” the Russian Armed Forces and of committing acts of hooliganism. Ammosov was found guilty in all instances and required to pay more than 90,000 rubles ($900) in fines. The Free Yakutia Foundation held a fundraiser to cover his legal costs. 
People from all over the republic, Russia, and from abroad sent money to help him. … We gathered the funds very quickly,” Kondakova of Free Yakutia told The Moscow Times. 
Ammosov’s first criminal case came after an August 2022 protest where, ahead of a planned visit by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin to Yakutsk, he hung a banner reading Yakutian punk against war” on the facade of an indoor swimming pool in the city center. 
Ammosov and a friend who filmed the performance were arrested on the spot. The musician then spent over a month in detention before being released to await trial. 
There was a feeling that the authorities themselves were scared of this case,” Kondakova explained. 
It was the first high-profile case in the republic and, on one hand, they wanted to make an example of it to silence others. On the other hand, they were scared that if Ayhal gets real jail time, it will prompt unrest.” 
Ammosov’s trial was repeatedly postponed, and in December he disappeared from the public eye completely, resurfacing a while later in neighboring Kazakhstan. 
He had a difficult life here in Kazakhstan. … I know he constantly needed money,” Kazakhstan-based Buryat journalist Yevgeniya Baltatarova told The Moscow Times. 
Finding ways to express himself was important for Ayhal. He continued to engage in public activism here even though we [other exiles] advised him against that,” she said. 
Ammosov continued to distribute anti-war flyers and stickers in Kazakhstan’s capital, Astana, and in Almaty. One depicted the Yakutian and Kazakh flags with the caption Our nations are against Russian imperialism.” 
In February 2023, Ammosov and a group of friends staged an unsanctioned rally near the Russian Embassy in Astana to mark the one-year anniversary of the invasion of Ukraine. The group was rounded up by security forces and taken in for questioning before they could make it to their protest location, according to Baltatarova. This was Ammosov’s first encounter with Kazakh law enforcement. 
Now, Ammosov is in an isolated detention center in Almaty, where he awaits possible deportation back to Sakha. One of his few lifelines to the outside world are care packages and letters brought to the facility by Bota Sharipzhan, an activist with Oyan, Qazaqstan!, one of Kazakhstan’s leading civil rights movements. 
Sharipzhan, who has long supported Kazakhstan’s political prisoners with care packages, decided to do the same for Ammosov and another detained Russian activist, Natalya Narskaya, fearing the two might be forgotten by fellow activists in both Kazakhstan and Russia. 
To be honest, I didn’t expect so much hype around it, but activists from Sakha immediately contacted me and offered to send money for the packages [for Ammosov],” Sharipzhan told The Moscow Times. 
I must be frank, I feel most sorry for Aykhal because he is Sakha and a lot of boys from [Russia’s] Asian republics go to die in the war,” she added. In my opinion, he shouldn’t spend even a single day in prison for not wanting to die in a pointless war.” 
But back home in his native Sakha, few seem to be talking about the arrest and possible deportation of a national punk hero. 
Last year everything was fresh, everything happened for the first time. … People had a very proactive and empathic response [to arrests],” said Free Yakutia’s Kondakova. 
But with new repressive laws, when each comment left on social media can land you a new fine … people became far less active politically.” 
The Dutch parent company of the Yandex Group announced Friday that it has completed the first phase of divesting from its Russia-based businesses. 
Yandex N.V. said in February that it had agreed to sell its Russian assets to a consortium of Russian investors for 475 billion rubles ($5.2 billion) in cash and shares, ending more than two decades of Western investment in what for years was seen as the crown jewel of Russia’s fast-growing tech industry. 
The Kremlin, which imposed steep exit taxes on Western companies after the start of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, said it welcomed that deal. 
On Friday, Yandex N.V. said it was pleased to announce that the initial closing of the transaction has occurred,” adding that it sold about 68% of the assets. 
The buyer is an investment fund called Consortium.First, which includes Russian companies and investment funds that are not under Western sanctions. The ultimate beneficial owner of one of the funds is Russian energy multinational Lukoil. 
Having carried out an earlier cash sale of a 3.7% stake, Yandex N.V. said it plans to sell the remaining 28% as part of the second phase, which is expected to take place in early July. 
Following the second closing, Yandex N.V. will have no interest in the Russian businesses,” it said. The Yandex group’s businesses in Russia make up 95% of total revenues. 
The Dutch holding company retains a small segment of Yandex’s international-focused business lines, including AI cloud and data platforms, as well as self-driving car technology. 
Four Russian board members resigned in the first phase of the sale, with the remaining members expected to propose their replacements. 
Yandex N.V. added that it has applied to delist from the Moscow Exchange by July 10 and expressed hope Nasdaq would resume trading its shares, but it said it could provide no assurance.” 
Tech giant Yandex announced Monday it has agreed to sell its Russian assets to a consortium of Russian investors for 475 billion rubles ($5.2 billion). 
The deal marks an end to more than two decades of Western investment in Yandex, which for years was seen as the crown jewel of Russia's fast-growing tech industry and an example of successful Western investment in Russia. 
The Netherlands-based Yandex N.V. had been negotiating a restructuring after Western sanctions over Russia’s war in Ukraine forced Yandex to effectively split into two companies, with one based in Russia and the other in Amsterdam. 
Yandex N.V., the Dutch parent company of the Yandex group… has entered into a definitive agreement with a purchaser consortium to sell all of the Yandex group’s businesses in Russia and certain international markets,” the company said in a press release. 
Yandex’s sale price includes the Russian government’s mandatory discount” of at least 50% to the fair value” of Yandex’s total assets, which Yandex N.V. estimates at 918 billion rubles ($10.2 billion). Yandex’s market capitalization had neared $30 billion in the pre-war year of 2021. 
The deal, which still needs the Kremlin's approval, is one of the largest among the spate of corporate exits since Moscow ordered troops into Ukraine. 
Yandex N.V. said its board approved the sale unanimously and now needs majority approval from shareholders at upcoming presentations. 
We anticipate that the first closing will occur in the first half of 2024,” the press release states. 
The Netherlands-based holding company will retain a small chunk of Yandex's international-focused business lines, including AI cloud and data platforms, and self-driving technologies. 
Yandex N.V. Board chairman John Boynton said the agreement announced Monday would allow shareholders to recover some value” for the businesses from which it is divesting. 
We believe that the proposed sale will position both parts of the current group to develop and grow for the benefit of their stakeholders,” he said. 
Yandex N.V. said the buyer, an investment fund called Consortium.First, includes Russian companies and investment funds that are not under Western sanctions. 
The buyers will be prohibited from transferring Yandex’s shares for a year after the deal. 
One of the investment funds to buy Yandex is ultimately owned by Russian oil major Lukoil. 
As part of the deal, Yandex N.V. will be renamed and will no longer use the Yandex brand name. 
Later on Monday, the Kremlin welcomed the proposed deal. 
Yandex is a national technology champion. For us, it is of course important that the company continues to work in the country,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. 
The head of the Kremlin-linked Wagner mercenary group confirmed Tuesday that a Zambian student killed while fighting for the Russian military in Ukraine had been recruited from prison by Wagner. 
Nathan Lemekhandi Nyirenda, 23, had been studying nuclear engineering at the Moscow Engineering Physics Institute before he was convicted on drug possession charges in 2020. 
He was killed on the frontlines of Ukraine on Sept. 22, the same month that videos emerged of Wagner chief Yevgeny Prigozhin personally recruiting Russian prisoners, promising them their freedom in exchange for serving six months in Ukraine. 
In a statement published by his Concord company, Prigozhin claimed that Nyirenda, who was serving a nine-and-a-half-year prison sentence, agreed to become a mercenary as an act of gratitude for Russia helping Africans to gain independence.” 
PMC Wagner saves thousands of Africans, and if I go to war with you, this is probably the least I can pay for our debt. And if I stay alive, I will learn how to fight for my country,” Prigozhin quoted Nyirenda as telling him. 
Zambian authorities said Russia did not inform them of Nyirenda’s death until mid-November. 
The Zambian foreign ministry and Nyirenda’s relatives demanded that Russia urgently provide information on the circumstances” surrounding his death and why he had been sent to the frontlines in Ukraine. 
