Russia discusses air defense system deliveries with Rwanda 
Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and the Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of Rwanda Louise Mushikiwabo 
KIGALI (Rwanda), June 3. /TASS/. Russia and Rwanda are developing military and technical cooperation and both sides are discussing the deliveries of Russian air defense systems, Russia’s Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said after negotiations with his Rwandan counterpart Louise Mushikiwabo on Sunday. 
We indeed have fairly good cooperation in the military and technical sphere. The Rwandan security forces, army and law-enforcement agencies operate our helicopters. There are also Ural vehicles used by the army and the security service and a whole bunch of small arms. Now the deliveries of air defense systems are being discussed, Lavrov said. 
As the Russian foreign minister noted, last year, an inter-governmental commission for military and technical cooperation was set up. 
It held its first session in Kigali in the autumn of 2017 to map out concrete ways of developing interaction in this sphere. The second session is planned for the autumn of this year in Moscow, the Russian foreign minister said. 
Russia and Rwanda have good prospects for developing cooperation in this sphere, Lavrov noted. 
‘We are content with how our military and technical cooperation is developing and it has a good history and good prospects, the Russian foreign minister said. 
‘We agreed to continue our cooperation concerning law-enforcement agencies and special services, first of all, in the fight against terrorism, which, unfortunately, has also taken root on the African continent, Lavrov said. 
Russia and Rwanda are also interested in implementing joint projects for the peaceful use of atomic energy, Lavrov said. 
Journalist Vyshinsky files request to renounce Ukrainian citizenship 
KIEV, June 4. /TASS/. Attorneys of Kirill Vyshinsky, Editor-In-Chief of RIA Novosti Ukraine, who was charged with high treason and arrested for two months in Ukraine, have filed a request to Ukrainian President Pyotr Poroshenko and other government services on renouncing his citizenship, lawyer Andrei Domansky told TASS. 
We have filed the request, the lawyer confirmed, noting that the procedure may take some eight or nine months. 
Vyshinsky has dual Ukrainian-Russian citizenship. He became Russian citizen in 2015. 
Announcing his plans to give up Ukrainian citizenship at a Kherson court, which considered an appeal against his arrest on June 1, Vyshinsky said: From now on I see myself as a citizen of only the Russian Federation. He also asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to provide him with legal assistance to be freed. 
Russia’s Foreign Ministry demanded that Kiev clear Vyshinsky of all charges and release him. 
Vyshinsky case 
On May 15, the Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) carried out a large-scale operation against RIA Novosti Ukraine staff members, accusing them of high treason. The news agency’s Chief Editor Kirill Vyshinsky was detained outside his home. Soon after that, searches were conducted in the news agency’s Kiev office and press center, as well as in some journalists’ apartments. At the same time, the SBU issued a statement claiming that a network of media structures, which Moscow used for carrying out a hybrid war against Kiev had been exposed. 
On May 17, Vyshinsky was charged with high treason and arrested for two months by the Kherson City Court. If found guilty, he may face up to 15 years in prison. More than 40 staff members of the news agency were summoned for interrogation by the SBU. 
AIMAZING Journey: Honor and VisitBritain Launch Worldwide Photo Competition 
LONDON, June 4, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Honor, a leading smartphone e-brand, today launched a worldwide photo competition #AIMAZING Journey with VisitBritain, encouraging a young generation of adventure seekers to share pictures of their favorite travel destinations. 
The partnership between Honor and VisitBritain is the latest announcement since the global launch of the Honor 10 in London on 15 May, 2018, when Honor launched its #AIMAZINGJourney, from June to August, inviting every Honor user to share their life experiences online. 
The journey begins in Britain today, when Honor fans will be encouraged to share their favorite travel experiences on the Honor Global Facebook page and the HiHonor competition website with their Honor phones. Britain is the first stop of the competition before it embarks on a round-the-world trip, calling at a new destination every fortnight, including United Arab Emirates, Russia, France, Germany and Finland. 
At the same time, VisitBritain's latest global campaign, 'I Travel For...' also explores people's passions for travel, and showcases the best places to visit in Britain. The two campaigns complement one another in this joint competition which calls on people to share their best travel experiences using their smartphone. 
As the leading e-brand for digital natives, Honor values its young and trendsetting fans. To this end, Honor is committed to creating experiences with them and for them, and with this competition Honor is offering participants a chance to receive a voucher towards their next holiday getaway. 
Honor fans are an inspiration to our brand worldwide. That's why we work hard to co-create lifestyle experiences for them, said George Zhao, President of Honor. With this competition, we hope to offer a once in a lifetime holiday experience to a younger generation of smartphone users and learn about their favorite destinations, how they travel and what they love to do when they get there. We chose Britain to launch the Honor 10 and for the first stage of this competition, because it is one of the world's top tourist destinations. There is nowhere else you can experience so much in one place. 
VisitBritain Chief Executive Sally Balcombe said: We want the UK to be the destination of choice for visitors from China and this competition is a perfect opportunity for free-spirited and spontaneous adventure seekers to show the world their favorite moments in Britain using their smartphone. 
The launch of the Honor 10, Honor's flagship smartphone for 2018, revealed two major ground-breaking and industry leading smartphone technologies to consumers. The first was the advanced AI 2.0 technology, applied chiefly to the smartphone's dual-lens camera. Second, was the Honor 10 CMF[1] design, a 3D glass back with a stunning nano-scale optical coating composed of 15 layers of shimmering color. 
Honor 10 has recorded a sales volume at over 1 million, after only one month of its initial launch in China and one week after the global launch in London. With a unique Internet-powered business model, unrivaled product, and unbeatable value, Honor has taken its successful business model from China to the global market. As George Zhao announced at a launch event in London last December, Honor aims to become a top-five smartphone brand by 2020. 
About Honor 
Honor is a leading smartphone e-brand under the Huawei Group. In line with its slogan, For the Brave, the brand was created to meet the needs of digital natives through internet-optimized products that offer superior user experiences, inspire action, foster creativity and empower the young to achieve their dreams. In doing this, Honor has set itself apart by showcasing its own bravery to do things differently and to take the steps needed to usher in the latest technologies and innovations for its customers. 
Germany sees no grounds to make any changes to G7 format for dialogue with Russia — source 
A G7 summit will be held in Quebec on June 8-9 
BERLIN, June 5. /TASS/. Berlin sees no reasons to change the G7 format for supporting dialogue with Russia, a German government source told reporters in Berlin on Tuesday. 
There is no discussion of any changes to the existing format, he stressed. Regardless of this fact, there are a number of foreign political problems that need to be discussed with Russia. 
You all know about the events that made the G8 turn into the G7, the German official noted. 
The old format 
The Group of Seven is an unofficial association of economically developed countries that includes the United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Canada, the United States, France and Japan. Their main declared objective is a search for solutions to global political and social problems. 
In 1976-1997, the organization operated as the Group of Seven. The Russian president was first invited as an equal partner to a G7 summit in Naples in 1994. Since then, the meetings have taken place in the G8 format. 
In 2014, Russia chaired the club. There were plans to hold a summit in Sochi, but the meeting was transferred to Brussels and held without Russia’s participation due to the 2014 events in Ukraine and tensions between the Western states that escalated after Crimea had acceded to Russia. The association decided to revive the G7 format. 
Canada is chairing the G7 in 2018. A G7 summit will be held in Quebec on June 8-9. 
New building of US embassy’s consulate department opens in Moscow 
The building has more than 40 windows for interviews with the applicants for US visas 
MOSCOW, June 5. /TASS/. US Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs, Carl Risch, on Tuesday attended a ceremony of opening a new building of the US embassy’s consulate department in Bolshoi Devyatinsky Pereulok Str. in Moscow. 
He said in his speech on the occasion that construction of the consulate compound took five years and about $ 280 million. The building has more than 40 windows for interviews with the applicants for US visas. 
Risch said the US was acting in the spirit of good will to support consular relations with Russia. He pointed out an increase in the number of trips the Russians were making to the US and the Americans, to Russia, adding the factor facilitated economic cooperation. 
Risch also indicated Russian citizens had nice opportunities because really professional consular officers were working with them. 
He complained the US embassy was short of staff because of recent reductions in diplomatic personnel and stressed Washington’s willingness to broaden consular presence in Moscow. 
Officials from the Russian Foreign Ministry took part in the ceremony. 
US ambassador to attend Soyuz spacecraft launch at Baikonur space center 
The crew includes Roscosmos cosmonaut Sergei Prokopyev, NASA astronaut Serena Aunon, and European Space Agency astronaut Alexander Gerst of Germany 
MOSCOW, June 5. /TASS/. The US ambassador to Russia, Jon Huntsman, is going to attend the launch of the Soyuz MS-09 spacecraft at the Baikonur space center in Kazakhstan that will take a Russian-US-German crew to the International Space Station, the Deputy Chief of Mission at the US Embassy in Moscow, Anthony Godfrey said on Tuesday. 
He said Huntsman left for Baikonur on Tuesday morning. 
The crew includes Roscosmos cosmonaut Sergei Prokopyev, NASA astronaut Serena Aunon, and European Space Agency astronaut Alexander Gerst of Germany. 
The Soyuz MS-09’s launch is scheduled for 14:12 Moscow Standard Time [11:12 UTC] from the launch pad known as Gagarin’s Start. 
The spacecraft’s docking to the ISS is scheduled for 16:07 Moscow Standard Time [13:07 UTC] on June 8. 
Putin says Russia needs to return its leadership in space exploration 
MOSCOW, June 7. /TASS/. Russia should make many steps forward to return its leading positions in space exploration, Russian President Vladimir Putin said during his Q&A session on Thursday. 
These technologies are developing and they are developing very actively and are being commercialized very actively and in this sense we must make many steps forward, including with regard to the quality of satellites and the quality of equipment. We must return and firmly keep our competence and leadership in launches, the Russian president said. 
Russia has unique competences in space exploration: the world’s first artificial satellite was launched by the Soviet Union and the world’s first man in outer space Yuri Gagarin was our compatriot, Putin stressed. 
Nevertheless, there is now competition in this sphere, Putin said, citing the example of partners from France and Asia and also from the United States. This is very good and normal and we are working with all the partners and we have plans of joint work, the Russian leader said. 
Putin cited as an example cooperation of Russian and US scientists who are working on the study of the deep space, in particular, such planets as Venus, despite sanctions. 
According to the president, there are plans to launch 600 communications and Earth’s remote sensing satellites under the unique Sfera program in the next few years. 
We have our own program, a very good program, a new program called Sfera, which envisages launching more than 600 satellites in the next few years that will deal with positioning, the Earth’s probing and communications, Putin said. 
This will be generally a breakthrough, the Russian president said. 
Speaking about the Sfera program, Putin said that this was yet another area where Russia could make a breakthrough as the quality of communications provided in this way would make it possible to replace cable links and the new network wouldn’t be worse by its quality and the coverage of territories but at the same time would be cheaper and more accessible, the Russian leader said. 
As a whole, this may lead to a revolution in the sphere of communications, Putin said. 
The Russian president also outlined the programs of exploring deep space. 
By 2022, we plan to hold the trials of a super-heavy rocket and by 2022 these should be launches in an unmanned mode and by 2024 already manned space vehicles should be used, the Russian president said, stressing that in general Russia had ambitious space exploration plans. 
The Russian leader said that Russia would continue pursuing this path. It is not accidental that we have spent quite substantial funds and resources to create a new cosmodrome in the east of our country, Putin said. 
We will develop it precisely as the civil component of our space activity, the president said. 
Putin to hold talks with Uzbek, Tajik, Iranian and Mongolian leaders in Qingdao 
The leaders of the three countries are expected to exchange views on ways to boost trilateral cooperation 
QINGDAO/China/, June 9. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin is due to hold a series of bilateral meetings on Saturday on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization’s summit in China’s resort city of Qingdao scheduled for June 9-10. 
The Russian leader is scheduled to hold negotiations with the leaders of Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Iran and Mongolia. The SCO summit’s major events will be held on Sunday and on the same day the Russian president will hold talks with Pakistani leader Mamnoon Hussain. 
The SCO summits, just like other summits, provide a good opportunity for holding bilateral contacts, Kremlin Aide for international issues Yuri Ushakov said. This time we have planned a whole range of bilateral meetings. 
The Russian presidential aide pointed out that there would also be a trilateral meeting involving Russia, China and Mongolia. The contacts in this format began on September 11, 2014 in Tajikistan’s capital of Dushanbe on the sidelines of the SCO Council of Heads of State’s meeting. Last year, no such meeting was held. We continue consultations on this meeting, Ushakov said, noting that the meeting’s participants will mostly discuss economic issues. 
Ushakov added that the first trilateral meeting was initiated by Mongolia at a meeting of the SCO Council of Heads of State held in Dushanbe in September 2014. Russia, China and Mongolia reached an agreement then to hold such summits on a regular basis. This time, leaders of the three countries are expected to exchange views on ways to boost trilateral cooperation in various areas, the implementation of a road map on cooperation and a program to establish a Russia-Mongolia-China economic corridor. 
Bilateral meetings 
At the meeting between Putin and Mongolian President Khaltmaagiin Battulga, the sides plan to exchange views on vital regional and international issues and pay attention to the Russian-Mongolian cooperation in multilateral organizations and boosting cooperation between the Eurasian Economic Union and the SCO. 
Speaking on Putin’s meeting with President of Pakistan Mamnoon Hussain, Ushakov said one of the most important areas of cooperation is countering terrorism. In particular, Russia is providing assistance to Pakistan in enhancing its counter-terrorism potential. 
At the meeting with President of Tajikistan Emomali Rahmon, Putin is scheduled to exchange views on topical international issues. The Kremlin aide said Russia and Tajikistan have similar positions in the framework of integration associations and international organizations such as the United Nations, the Commonwealth of Independent States, the Collective Security Treaty Organization, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. 
During the meeting with Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev, Putin plans to pay special attention to the issues of fighting against international terrorism. 
Putin also plans to discuss with Iranian President Hassan Rouhani a range of issues of regional agenda, including the situation around the Iran nuclear deal and also the preparations for the 5th Caspian Summit. 
Russia’s new robotic vehicle helps Strategic Missile Force clear mines in tactical drills 
The vehicle disables and blocks electronic components of detonators or blows them up 
MOSCOW, June 9. /TASS/. Servicemen of a Novosibirsk-based missile formation of Russia’s Strategic Missile Force have used the Listva remote-controlled robotic mine-clearing vehicle for the first time in tactical drills, the Defense Ministry of Russia reported on Saturday. 
The Novosibirsk missile formation used the newest Listva remote-controlled mine-clearing vehicle to escort Yars road-mobile missile complexes along the routes of combat patrolling, the Defense Ministry said, adding that the most advanced mine-clearing vehicle had been used only in military exercises before that. 
According to the tactical drills’ scenario, notional subversion groups planted ten remote-controlled explosives along the route of the column’s movement. The roadside bombs were intended to be detonated but were detected by the vehicle’s emitters. The explosives were blown up before the column of Yars missile complexes started its movement and all the planted bombs were destroyed. The Yars complexes stayed at a large distance from the explosions. 
The robotic mine-clearing vehicle destroyed the explosives both on the roadside and at a distance of 50 meters from the road. 
As Russia’s Defense Ministry also reported, more than 300 pieces of engineering hardware are scheduled for delivery to the engineering units of Russia’s Strategic Missile Force by 2020. These include obstacle-clearing vehicles, heavy mechanized bridges, excavators, automobile cranes and other engineering equipment. Wheeled road vehicles designed specially for Russia’s Strategic Missile Force this year will account for over 50% of all engineering hardware. 
The Listva remote-controlled mine-clearing vehicle developed specially for the Strategic Missile Force is designed to detect mines and explosives with metal elements and destroy engineer explosive items and improvised explosive devices with electronic components. Explosive devices are detected with the use of an induction wide-span search module. 
The Listva clears mines and explosives using electromagnetic radiation. The vehicle disables and blocks electronic components of detonators or blows them up. Earlier, this technology was not used for eliminating explosives at a distance. The Listva’s electronics can detect mines and roadside bombs at a distance of up to 100 meters. 
KT to Bring Next Tech Revolution to Space and North Korea 
South Korea's Space Industry Leader to Expand Service to Satellite Platforms 
SEOUL, South Korea, June 11, 2018 KT Corp. (KRX: 030200; NYSE: KT), South Korea's largest telecommunications company, said today that its satellite business operator will gear up efforts to bring the next technology revolution to outer space as well as the Korean peninsula. 
KT SAT Co., Ltd., Korea's only satellite service provider, aims to become the seventh-largest satellite operator in the world by 2025, up from its current 18th rank. To achieve this, it will focus on using latest 5G mobile technologies in outer space, applying quantum cryptography to satellite communication, and providing a blockchain service for secure data sharing. 
As two Koreas move toward peace recently, KT SAT expects to launch its satellite service in North Korea, a potential market for communications and broadcasting networks. KT Corp. has created a special task force to support inter-Korean cooperation and expand exchanges in ICT following April's landmark summit between North and South Korea. 
KT SAT is leading Korea's space industry in the global market for satellite business, writing a new chapter of the country's satellite history, Chief Executive Officer Hahn Won-Sic said in a press briefing on June 7, at the Kumsan Satellite Service Center, Korea's first satellite earth station. If things go well, KT SAT can provide telecommunications and broadcasting infrastructure in North Korea by using its satellites. 
KT SAT was established as a KT subsidiary specializing in satellite services when Korea's top telecom provider spun off its satellite business in 2012. With the launch of KOREASAT-7 and 5A last year, the company is strengthening its position as a leading global service provider. 
KT's first satellite operator currently owns five satellites. The latest, KOREASAT-7 and KOREASAT-5A, were launched in May and October in 2017, respectively. KOREASAT-5A extended KT SAT's coverage from the Korean peninsula to the Philippines, Indochina, the Middle East and parts of South Asia. KOREASAT-7 covers the Philippines, Indonesia, Indochina and India. 
KT SAT's main business was satellite transponder leasing in the domestic market until it started a global advance in 2015. The company's customer list now has 22 in seven countries, up from 13 in three countries, and its satellite coverage has expanded, boosting sales. 
As an ICT pioneer, KT SAT is striving to bring high-speed Internet service to places where it remains mostly unavailable, such as in-flight WiFi service, also known as in-flight connectivity. 
KT SAT is also Korea's largest provider of maritime telecommunications service thanks to a two-way satellite ground station, known as a maritime very small aperture terminal, or MVSAT. Ships at sea are provided unlimited access to data at a fixed rate in contrast to previous charges based on the amount of data used. 
For overseas expansion, KT SAT is exploring the global MVSAT market through its KOREASAT-5A, whose high-powered, dedicated beams for global maritime communications cover Korea's East Sea, the South and East China seas, the Bay of Bengal and the Arabian Sea. 
Rosatom’s venture fund considers over 20 companies for investments 
It was reported earlier Rosatom set up the venture fund for development of new and promising areas, with investments planned up to $48.1 mln 
MOSCOW, June 13. /TASS/. Digital Evolution Ventures, the new and perspective technologies venture fund of the Russian state-run nuclear corporation Rosatom, is currently considering more than 20 companies for potential investments, Evgeny Kuznetsov, the chief executive of Orbita Capital Partners, the management company of the Fund, told TASS on Wednesday. 
We are already viewing at present more than twenty companies - in respect of new fuel cells, transport systems and artificial intelligence in the industry and urban system. We are mainly probing now for priority areas that will take off shortly, Kuznetsov said. 
It was reported earlier Rosatom set up the venture fund for development of new and promising areas, with investments planned up to 3 bln rubles ($48.1 mln). The Fund will focus on new business development areas linked to perspective areas of the Russian and global economy. Key areas comprise artificial intelligence and other digital solutions in the industry and service applications, renewable and smart energy, 3D printing and new materials and development systems for smart and energy efficient cities. 
Synergy of companies the Fund is going to invest in with Rosatom and its capabilities are expected, the top manager said. Our task is to diversify the business. We look for new growth spurts, Kuznetsov added. 
Russian pilot Yaroshenko being transferred to another US jail — embassy 
Yaroshenko’s lawyer Alexei Tarasov had earlier demanded that the pilot be removed from a solitary confinement 
WASHINGTON, June 13. /TASS/. The US authorities have decided to transfer Russian pilot Konstantin Yaroshenko, who was serving out a 20-year prison term at the Fort Dix federal prison, to another penitentiary facility, the Russian embassy in the US said on Facebook. 
According to the information available to the embassy, Russian citizen Konstantin Yaroshenko, wrongfully convicted in the United States to 20 years in prison, is being transferred from the Fort Dix prison in New Jersey to another penitentiary facility. He has been currently taken to a temporary detention facility in New York City, the embassy said. 
The Russian embassy, and the consulate general in New York City have been keeping an eye on the situation. We continue to provide consular and legal assistance to him, the embassy said. 
Yaroshenko’s lawyer Alexei Tarasov had earlier demanded that the pilot be removed from a solitary confinement where he had spent over a month despite his stomach issues. 
Yaroshenko’s case 
Yaroshenko was arrested in Liberia in May 2010, and was later secretly transferred to the United States. In April 2011, a jury found him guilty of conspiracy to smuggle a major drug shipment into the US, and sentenced him to 20 years behind bars. However, Yaroshenko pleaded not guilty, saying his arrest was a provocation and the case was fabricated. 
Moscow has many times requested that Washington extradite the pilot to Russia. 
Prolonged Russia-Saudi cooperation to stabilize prices for crude oil — expert 
Saudi Arabia and Russia reached agreement on Thursday on making the next step towards broader cooperation in the energy sector, and especially in the oil and gas industry 
MOSCOW, June 15. /TASS/. Prolonging of collaboration between Russia and Saudi Arabia and institutionalization of the OPEC+ agreement will stabilize the prices of crude oil and stimulate growth in world economy, believes Kirill Dmitriev, the head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund. 
Russia and Saudi Arabia's decision to recommend prolongation and institutionalization of the OPEC+ agreement to the 24 leading oil producing nations is truly historic, he said after the signing of a joint communique by the Russian and Saudi Energy Ministers. 
OPEC+ agreement led up to a stabilization of oil prices and a steady growth of world economy, Dmitriev indicated. 
Prolonged collaboration between Russia, Saudi Arabia and other countries will make it possible to boost investment in the energy sector for many long years ahead and will bring about predictability of oil prices for producers and suppliers, he said. It's very encouraging for world economy growth. 
Saudi Arabia and Russia reached agreement on Thursday on making the next step towards broader cooperation in the energy sector, and especially in the oil and gas industry. They also agreed to work together with all the signatories to the Declaration on Cooperation for setting up a long-term cooperation format and to invite all other major oil producers to join it. 
The joint communique said the two sides also put trust in a shared responsibility of all the parties for stability on the oil market. 
The sides stated their plans to support investment in the oil and gas and sector for meeting the growing demand for oil, to make up for a natural decrease of the output, and to invest in the energy sector of raising its energy-effectiveness with a parallel speeding up of technological progress and enhancing stability of world economy. 
Impact of 2018 World Cup on inflation in Russia will be insignificant — Central Bank 
It will have a short-time effect only in certain cities, head of the Bank of Russia Elvira Nabiullina said 
MOSCOW, June 15. /TASS/. Influence of the 2018 World Cup on inflation in Russia as a whole will be insignificant, head of the Bank of Russia Elvira Nabiullina told at a press conference. 
The influence of the World Cup will be insignificant. It will have a short-time effect only in certain cities, it will concern certain goods and services, primarily consumed by tourists, she said. 
She also said that Russia's GDP growth in the second quarter can be up to 0.1-0.2 p.p. thanks to the World Cup. 
Holding such a large-scale international event will additionally support the growth (in production - TASS) in the second quarter, and by the end of the year its contribution to GDP growth may reach 0.1-0.2 percentage points, Nabiullina said. 
The head of the Bank of Russia also expressed hope that the World Cup will only have a positive impact on the expectations and sentiments of both Russians and the guests. 
The 2018 World Cup is held from June 14 to July 15 at 12 stadiums in 11 Russian cities: Moscow, St. Petersburg, Kazan, Nizhny Novgorod, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Yekaterinburg, Samara, Sochi and Rostov-on-Don. 
Russian journalist arrested in Ukraine looks forward to meeting human rights ombudsperson 
Vyshinsky’s defense welcomes any steps related to our client’s defense, including possible visits by the OSCE monitoring mission members and consular officers of other countries 
KIEV, June 16. /TASS/. Chief Editor of the RIA Novosti Ukraine news agency Kirill Vyshinsky, charged with high treason in Ukraine and currently kept in a pre-trial detention facility in the city of Kherson, welcomes any steps related to his defense, his attorney Andrei Domansky told TASS. 
I have just visited Kirill Vyshinsky in the pre-trial detention center, he said. I told Kirill that the Russian human rights ombudsperson may visit him and he was glad to hear that, the attorney said, adding that the journalist’s father had had a chance to meet with his son at the detention center. 
Domansky stressed that Vyshinsky’s defense welcomes any steps related to our client’s defense, including possible visits by the OSCE monitoring mission members and consular officers of other countries. 
Vyshinsky case 
On May 15, the Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) carried out a large-scale operation against RIA Novosti Ukraine staff members, accusing them of high treason. The news agency’s Chief Editor Kirill Vyshinsky was detained. Searches were conducted in the news agency’s Kiev office and press center, as well as in some journalists’ apartments. The SBU also issued a statement claiming that a network of media structures, which Moscow used for carrying out a hybrid war against Kiev had been exposed. 
The journalist was taken to the city of Kherson, where the city court arrested him for 60 days. The high treason charge against him is particularly based on a number of the journalist’s articles dedicated to the 2014 events in Crimea. If found guilty, the journalist may face up to 15 years in prison. 
Vyshinsky, originally a Ukrainian national, obtained Russian citizenship in 2015. Vyshinsky addressed Ukrainian President Pyotr Poroshenko from the courtroom, renouncing his Ukrainian citizenship and saying he considered himself to be only a Russian national. He also addressed Russian President Vladimir Putin, asking for legal assistance in his release. 
Russian delegation invites Finnish legislators to Arctic hearings — MP 
Hearings on cooperation in the Arctic are planned for November 
HELSINKI, June 19. /TASS/. A delegation of the Russian parliament’s upper house (Federation Council) invited Finnish legislators, members of the foreign relations commission, to hearings on cooperation in the Arctic, planned for November, Head of the Federation Council’s Committee Konstantin Kosachev told reporters after a three-day visit to Finland. 
According to him, the countries will include actively into the dialogue issues of multilateral cooperation, including on the North, Arctic and the Baltic Regions. 
Before coming here, we have planned for November big parliamentary hearings in Russia on international cooperation in the Arctic, he said. Initially, that even was supposed to be domestic, but, as we studied the program of Finland’s chairing the Arctic Council, we realized it would be most important to attract to those hearings our Finnish counterparts, and thus we have invited them as the only foreign party. 
The event will be organized on board a nuclear icebreaker, he continued. 
Most probably, we shall depart from Murmansk, will cover a part of the Northern Sea Route: we have plans to get to Sabetta - a giant LNG project in Yamal, a breakthrough project, which changes the entire architecture of the Arctic’s development and of the Northern Sea Route’s exploitation, the senator said. It would be very important for us to demonstrate to the Finnish counterparts how this looks like and how Russia approaches cooperation in the Arctic. 
The Federation Council’s delegation, led by senator Kosachev, visited Helsinki in June 13-15. 
Iran may take part in OPEC+ Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee’s meeting on June 21 
Iran is one of the countries opposing the easing of quotas under the oil cut deal 
VIENNA, June 20. /TASS/. Iranian Oil Minister Bijan Namdar Zanganeh may take part in the OPEC+ Joint Ministerial Monitoring Committee’s meeting on June 21 in order to discuss the easing of quotas under the oil production cut deal, two sources participating in the talks told TASS. 
We plan to invite Iran and a number of other counties that are not JMMC members. Thus we may discuss the issue on Friday instead of Saturday, one of the sources said. 
Another source confirmed to TASS that Zanganeh expected to hold a bilateral meeting with Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak, who co-chairs the JMMC, ahead the main OPEC+ meeting set to be held on June 22-23. 
Zanganeh earlier told reporters that he would leave Vienna on Friday and would not participate in the OPEC+ meeting on Saturday, June 23, when a decision on increasing oil production is expected to be made. 
Iran is one of the countries opposing the easing of quotas under the oil cut deal, which was initiated by Russia and Saudi Arabia, who call for increasing oil production for 1.5 mln barrel per day in the third quarter of 2018. The two countries point to the risk of oil shortages as a result of decreasing oil production in Venezuela and possible US sanctions against Iran. 
Japan’s Princess wants her fellow citizens to learn more about Russia 
As Honorary President of the Japan Football Association, Princess Takamado attended the June 19 match between Japan and Colombia 
SARANSK, June 20. /TASS/. Princess Hisako Takamado of Japan, who is the first member of the Japanese Imperial Family to visit Russia over the past 102 years, said she would tell as many Japanese citizens as possible about Russia. 
This visit is a great honor for me. I will bring all my impression about Russia to Japan and tell the biggest possible number of people about this, the Princess told reporters on Wednesday. 
Saransk, the capital of the Mordovia Republic, was the first Russian city which she saw besides Moscow, where she had a connection at the airport. I’m going to visit two more places in the future, the Princess said. 
The Kyodo news agency earlier reported that Princess Takamado also plans to go to Kazan, where the Japanese team’s training base is located, and to Yekaterinburg, which will host a match between the national team and Senegal. 
As Honorary President of the Japan Football Association, Princess Takamado attended the June 19 match between Japan and Colombia in Saransk and also visited the Mordovian Erzia Museum of Visual Arts and a regional museum in Saransk. 
Earlier on Wednesday, she visited for the first time an Orthodox church, the Cathedral of St. Theodore Ushakov. The Princess was accompanied by the representatives of the Saransk eparchy of the Russian Orthodox Church, who organized an hour-long excursion for her at the church. 
I have been only to one Orthodox church, and that’s the cathedral in Saransk. It is absolutely marvelous and is a symbol for all residents of the city, the Princess told reporters. The construction of the Cathedral of St. Theodore Ushakov began in 2002 and lasted for four years. The cathedral is 70 meters long and is the highest church in the Volga Federal District. 
The Princess praised the level of cultural development in Mordovia. I was able to attend various cultural events and I understood that the cultural level in Mordovia is very high. Many artists and performers were born here, she said. 
Princess Takamado stressed that 2018 is the Year of Japan in Russia and the Year of Russia in Japan, voicing hope that this helps Russians to know about Japan’s culture, and the citizens of the Land of the Rising Sun to get to know about Russia. 
Beginning from 1998, Princess Takamado has been visiting all FIFA World Cups to encourage her team. Last time, a member of the Imperial Family visited Russia in 1916 as a representative of the allied power during World War I. 
Austria extradites to Russia notorious ringleader of crime gang 
MOSCOW, June 20. /TASS/. An accused ringleader of a North Ossetian organized crime gang Aslan Gagiyev (nicknamed Jaco) has been extradited from Austria to Russia. 
The gang committed over 40 murders, assassination attempts against law enforcement officers and attempted murders in Moscow, the Moscow region and North Ossetia. 
Gagiyev, born in 1971, has been extradited from Vienna to Moscow, escorted by representatives from the Russian Interior Ministry’s National Central Bureau of Interpol and the Federal Penitentiary Service of Russia, Interior Ministry’s Spokesperson Irina Volk told TASS on Wednesday. 
She said Gagiyev is accused under several articles of the Russian Criminal Code, including ‘Setting up a criminal gang’, ‘Banditism’, ‘Murder’, ‘Illegal trafficking of weapons’ and ‘Fraud’. 
Gagiyev case 
Gagiyev was detained in Vienna in January 2015 on the basis of an international arrest warrant issued by Interpol’s Moscow office. In Russia, Gagiyev is accused of initiating a crime gang, carrying out and organizing murders. 
His mobsters are responsible for dozens of murders, including the assassination of Vladikavkaz Mayor Vitaly Karayev and North Ossetian Vice Premier Kazbek Pagiyev. This criminal mob cobbled together and led by Gagiyev, started its crime wave in 2004 with more than 46 members. The gang committed over 40 murders, assassination attempts against law enforcement officers and attempted murders in Moscow, the Moscow region and North Ossetia. 
As of the present moment, a number of gang members have been sentenced to long terms in prison, while the leader of one of the criminal groups subordinated to the crime gang, Oleg Gagiyev, has been sentenced for life. 
Sixteen people are in custody, and 13 were put on the international and federal wanted lists. Four of them, including Aslan Gagiyev, were detained in foreign countries and are facing an extradition. 
Pope Francis I believes movement towards unity impossible without Russia 
The Pope is making a pilgrimage timed for the 70th anniversary of the World Council of Churches 
GENEVA, June 21. /TASS/. Pope Francis I believes that movement towards unity is impossible without Russia. He said it on Sunday in a brief conversation with TASS on the way to Geneva. 
The Pope is making one-day ecumenical pilgrimage timed for the 70th anniversary of the World Council of Churches [WCC]. 
As Francis I welcomed the reporters on his media pool, he described the trip to Geneva as a journey marked by aspirations for unity: 
But the advance towards it is impossible without Russia, the Pope said answering a question from TASS. 
He said in his address at the Ecumenical Center at the WCC that Christians should keep up unity and avert wars. 
The WCC is a large international Christian organization uniting 348 various Christian Churches in more than a hundred countries, with the overall congregation exceeding 400 million believers. 
Unlike Moscow Patriarchate that has a permanent representative at the WCC, the Holly See does not have membership of the organization. However, it cooperates with the WCC on humanitarian issues since 1965. 
Scientists plan summer expedition to Yamal gas craters 
Several craters have been found in Yamal since 2014 
TASS, June 21. Russian scientists plan for summer [2018] a monitoring of lakes, which formed inside two craters of gas emission in the Yamalo-Nenets Region. They will collect data necessary to understand how those objects develop, an expert of the Institute of the Earth’s Cryosphere at the Siberian branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences Artem Khomutov told TASS on Thursday. 
Several craters have been found in Yamal since 2014. They all are filled with water now. The funnels developed from gas emissions. In summer 2017, scientists found two more craters: one of them is 34km from the Seyakha village and the other - 20km from the Yaruta village. Specialists warn the craters are dangerous for reindeer herders and settlements, for roads, railways and pipelines. 
Scientists led by Marina Leibman will continue studying the craters, the expert told TASS. The work is financed by a grant from the Russian Scientific Fund. 
In summer, they will continue monitoring lakes in two craters, which are 20 and 40 kilometers south from the Bovanenkovskoye field, he continued. This monitoring is valuable from the point of view of realizing the gas emissions’ nature and of their influence on the neighboring landscape. 
According to the expert, in 2017, specialists visited one of the craters and described in full detail the landscape formed after the emission. The results show that the gas emission there formed micro-landscapes at a distance from the crater, which is bigger by 15-20 times than the crater itself, he said. 
During the previous winter expedition to the craters, specialists took samples of the lake water and sediments to study the bacteria, which participate in methane’s geo-chemical cycle, the expert said. 
Mummy unearthed in Russia attributed to Hunnu culture 
This is the first grave to have been found in Russia's Tuva 
MOSCOW, June 21. /TASS/. The mummy a group of archaeologists from St. Petersburg’s Institute for the History of Material Culture has unearthed near the Sayano-Shushenskaya Dam is attributed to the Hunnu culture, the leader of the institute’s archeological expedition to Tuva, Marina Kilunovskaya, has told TASS. 
The mummy of a young woman was found inside a grave at the burial ground Terezin on the shore of a water reservoir. The lower part of the body is well-preserved. It is not a classical mummy, though. The grave remained tightly sealed under the stone cover all along. The body underwent natural mummification, Kilunovskaya said, adding that the mummy belonged with the Hunnu era and should be dated back to the 1st century B.C. 
This is the first grave to have been found in Tuva. Nothing indicates it was rich. Next to the body the archeologists found some fragments of ceramic utensils and other items characteristic of Hunnu funeral practices. All items will now be thoroughly examined in St. Petersburg. 
The artifacts picked on the site several hours after the mummy was discovered, such as a belt adorned with bead embroidery, prompted archeologists to conclude that the woman was young and noble. Next to the woman’s head there lay a beach bark-covered wooden box containing a Chinese mirror in a felt case. One of the two vessels retrieved from the grave was a typical Hunnu vase. On the woman’s chest there lay a pouchful of cedar nuts. Some fragments of clothing, presumably made of silk fabric, are in good condition for further analysis. 
Archaeological excavation in Tuva 
Tuva is an area where many archeological monuments left by different peoples continue to be found. The Arjaan-2 mound contained the grave of a Scythian tsar and a large collection of gold items. The excavation of the old fortress Por-Bazhyn began under the patronage of the Emergencies Ministry in 2007. 
Hunnu - a nomadic people who at the end of the 3rd century B.C. created a vast state in the territory of what is now northern China and southern Siberia. It is believed that after the collapse of their state part of the Hunnu people migrated westwards to get mixed with locals. In Europe their descendants were known as Huns. 
In May 2018, an expedition was dispatched to Tuva to study archeological monuments flooded by a water reservoir that emerged after the construction of the Sayano-Shushenskaya Dam on the Yenisei River (the reservoir began to be filled with water in 1985). Large territories in Tuva, including archeological sites were flooded. The level of water in the reservoir usually falls in May-June, providing temporary access to the flooded historical sites and monuments. 
Russia welcomes OPEC decision to increase oil production within OPEC+ 
The decision is in line with the proposals that were worked out by the monitoring committee, Russian Minister of Energy Alexander Novak said 
VIENNA, June 23. /TASS/. Russia welcomes OPEC's decision to increase oil production by 1 mln barrels per day withing the OPEC+ deal, Russian Minister of Energy Alexander Novak told reporters. 
This decision is in line with the proposals that were worked out by the monitoring committee, which corresponds to today's ideas about what needs to be done on the market. I think that at this stage 1 mln barrels is reasonable, he said. 
He noted that many market participants agree with increasing oil production and within the framework of the forthcoming meeting of OPEC+ there will be many willing to comment on the recommendation of the monitoring committee to increase oil production by 1 mln barrels per day in the framework of the OPEC + agreement. 
We have a lot of countries, there are many who want to speak, I think, the Minister said. 
The OPEC ministers at a meeting on Friday decided to increase oil production within the OPEC+ deal by 1 mln barrels per day. 
On Saturday, June 23, the final decision will be made at a meeting of OPEC+, which includes a number of oil-exporting countries, including Russia. 
The OPEC+ agreement, which unites 24 countries, has been in effect since the beginning of 2017. Over the past few months, the plan has been overfulfilled, including through declining production in Venezuela and a number of African countries. As of May of this year, the level of performance has reached 150%, which means that the deal participants reduced production by 2.7 mln barrels per day instead of the expected 1.8 mln barrels against the level of October 2016. 
Against the backdrop of over-fulfillment of the agreement, the ministers of the OPEC + countries started talking about the need to soften quotas and gradually restore production from the second half of 2018. 
The meeting of the ministerial monitoring committee of OPEC+, which usually proceeds from the recommendations and future scenarios of the technical committee, was held on June 21 in Vienna. The ministerial monitoring committee, which includes six countries - Saudi Arabia, Russia, Kuwait, Venezuela, Oman and Algeria, in turn, makes recommendations to the OPEC+ meeting in large numbers, which is held on June 22-23. 
Russia plays better at 2018 FIFA World Cup compared to 2017 Confederations Cup - coach 
The head coach of the Russian national squad also told journalists that the team was not making and selective predictions regarding the next opponent in the round of Last 16 
SAMARA, June 24. /TASS/. The Russian national football team is playing at matches of the 2018 FIFA World Cup much better compared with its performance at the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup, Stanislav Cherchesov, the head coach of the national side, said on Sunday. 
We look much better compared to the (2017 FIFA) Confederations Cup, where we were also in a decent shape, Cherchesov told journalists in Samara. We should not exclude the motivation, since it is our home World Cup. It explains why we play better than some other teams. 
At the 2017 FIFA Confederations Cup, held last summer in four Russian cities, the Russian national squad defeated New Zealand 2-0, then missed the victory against UEFA Champions Portugal 0-1 and finally lost to Mexico 1-2, failing to qualify for the next round. 
Earlier in the day, a total of 22 players from the Russian squad appeared for a training session on the pitch of the 45,000-seat capacity Samara Arena amid hot summer temperatures hovering around 30 degrees Celsius (86 degrees Fahrenheit). The practice was held ahead of their final group stage match against Uruguay on Monday. 
The head coach of the Russian national squad also told journalists that the team was not making and selective predictions regarding the next opponent in the round of Last 16. 
We are not having any preferences, Cherchesov said. The (Group B) matches of Portugal (against Iran) and Spain (against Morocco) will be played after us (on Monday). 
We played against both of them (Portugal and Spain) in the past and looked decent in both matches, so it will all eventually be just like the god of football decides. 
Both Russia and Uruguay already secured places in the next Round of Last 16 of the global football championship, each enjoying wins over opponents in their two previous group stage matches. Tomorrow’s match will decide on the winner of their Group A, which also enrolls the teams from Saudi Arabia and Egypt. 
Russia’s possible opponents in the Last 16 will be decided on Monday and they are currently Portugal, Spain and Iran. 
A total of 32 national football teams are participating in the 2018 FIFA World Cup held in 11 cities across Russia between June 14 and July 15. 
Russia is holding its first time ever edition of the FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a spectacular opening show at the Luzhniki Stadium on the night of June 14. 
The country selected 11 host cities to be the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup and they are Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara. 
Russia’s top brass blasts NATO’s tank biathlon as competition with ‘anti-Russian context’ 
Ukrainian tank crews were among the eight teams that took part in the NATO tank warfare competitions, the Russian general said 
MOSCOW, June 25. /TASS/. NATO’s tank biathlon competition has a clear anti-Russian context, Russia’s Army Combat Training Directorate Chief Major-General Roman Binyukov said on Monday. 
NATO member states reject invitations to take part in the tank biathlon of the International Army Games, the Russian general said. 
They do not come to our competition and do not invite the Russian team to their contest. However, the international success of our tank biathlon has forced our NATO colleagues to hold a similar competition at one of the Bundeswehr training ranges, the Russian Defense Ministry quoted Binyukov as saying. 
Compared to the Russian competition, the conditions of the NATO contest have nothing to do with competitiveness and the sports spirt. At the same time, the anti-Russian context is felt: even during the accomplishment of gunnery tasks, NATO crews practice firing against old Soviet hardware rather than against targets, the Russian general said. 
According to Binyukov, during the tank biathlon at the International Army Games, the armor is used at maximal regimes and the victory is achieved by the quickness of making decisions, the speed and the accuracy of fire. 
This is also achieved through annual improvements by Russian designers of the T-72B3M tank used by tank crewmen from Russia, the general said. 
Ukrainian tanks 
Ukrainian tank crews were among the eight teams that took part in the NATO tank warfare competitions, the Russian general said. 
According to Binyukov, one of the Ukrainian tankmen who commented for journalists on the Ukrainian team’s poor performance in the NATO competition, admitted that the team’s last place could be explained by the low quality of the manufacture and the unsatisfactory combat capabilities of Ukrainian tanks, and also by the unsatisfactory level of the tank crews’ training.. 
Russia ready to counter UK’s OPCW initiative, chief delegate says 
Russia earlier said it was prepared to submit its project on reforming the OPCW mandate 
THE HAGUE, June 26. /TASS/. Russia is ready for the debate to counter Britain’s initiative on expanding the powers of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) at an extraordinary Conference of the State Parties to the Chemical Weapons Convention in The Hague, Russia’s Chief Negotiator, Deputy Industry and Trade Minister Georgy Kalamanov told TASS on Tuesday. 
Of course, we are ready to counter Britain’s initiative. I believe there will be a serious discussion of the solution proposed by the UK and expect other draft decisions to be submitted, he noted. 
Russia earlier said it was prepared to submit its project on reforming the OPCW mandate. The UK summited its project on the OPCW mandate in early June, Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said. According to Johnson, London suggests empowering the organization to apportion blame for chemical weapons incidents in Syria and taking steps to help states counter the threat of chemical terrorism. 
Putin says modern weapons rate close to 60% in Russian Army 
This pace allows the country to reach the planned figure of 70% by 2021, according to the Russian leader 
MiG-31K fighter jets with Kinzhal hypersonic missiles 
MOSCOW, June 28. /TASS/. The share of modern weapons in the Russian Armed Forces is coming close to 60% and this pace allows the country to reach the planned figure of 70% by 2021, Russia’s President Vladimir Putin said on Thursday. 
Putin spoke at a reception given in the Kremlin in honor of the best graduates of higher military institutions. 
Just six years ago, the share of modern weapons and military hardware did not exceed 16% in the Army and in the Navy, the Russian leader said. 
Today, it is close to 60% and the current pace will allow us to reach the planned figure of 70% by 2021, Putin said. 
Russia’s most advanced Kinzhal air-launched hypersonic missile complex is already on experimental combat duty in the country’s Southern Military District, Putin said. 
Avangard intercontinental missile complexes will arrive for the troops shortly while Sarmat [new heavy ICBMs] will enter service in a year, Russia’s supreme commander-in-chief said, stressing that this is just a part of modern armaments, which will make it possible to increase the Russian Army’s potential by many times. 
Thanks to the huge effort by its research and design institutes and industrial enterprises, Russia has achieved a decisive breakthrough in the sphere of new armaments, Putin noted. 
Workers, engineers and researchers have performed a true feat and, as was often the case in history, did what others have failed to do so far. 
A whole number of domestic weapon systems are ahead of foreign rivals for years and, perhaps, for decades to come, the Russian president said. 
Addressing the graduates of higher military institutions, the Russian leader stressed that their task was to become true professionals in the military sphere and for this purpose, you need to fully master the tactics of command and control and learn to operate advanced military hardware and competently command personnel and always keep high the level attained during the studies to be the best and to be an example for your comrades-in-arms and for your subordinates in everything. I am confident that you are ready for that, Putin said. 
Japan advances to 2018 FIFA World Cup knockout stage despite 0-1 defeat to Poland 
The Japanese national football team finished its last group stager match of the 2018 FIFA World Cup with 0-1 defeat to Poland 
VOLGOGRAD, June 28. /TASS/. The Japanese national football team finished its last group stager match of the 2018 FIFA World Cup with 0-1 defeat to Poland on Thursday night in Volgograd, but finished second it its Group H to advance to the round of Last 16. 
Following the scoreless first half of the match, which saw an attendance of almost 42,200, the score was opened five minutes into the second half by Polish defender Jan Bednarek. The goal of the 22-year-old player turned out to be the only one scored in the game. 
In a parallel Group H game played in the Volga city of Samara, team Colombia beat Senegal also with the score of 1-0, meaning that the Colombian team finished the group stage in the top spot. The teams of Poland and Senegal are now packing home. 
Japan is now set to play in the opening match of the knockout stage on July 2 in the southern city of Rostov-on-Don, while Colombia will play on July 3 at the Spartak Arena in Moscow. Their opponents will be decided later in the day in the Group G match between England and Belgium. 
Both England and Belgium have already qualified for the next round and tonight’s match in Russia’s westernmost city of Kaliningrad will only decide which team finishes in the top of the group. The winners in Group G will be facing Japan on July 2 and the runners-up will stand against Colombia in Moscow on July 3. 
A total of 32 national football teams entered the 2018 FIFA World Cup, which is held in 11 cities across Russia between June 14 and July 15, and only 16 of them proceeded to the knockout stage. 
Russia is holding its first time ever edition of the FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a spectacular opening show at the Luzhniki Stadium on the night of June 14. 
The country selected 11 host cities to be the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup and they are Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara. 
EU extends economic sanctions against Russia 
The EU Council has made a political decision to extend the sanctions for another 6 months, according to a source 
BRUSSELS, June 29. /TASS/. The leaders of the EU countries made a political decision to extend economic sanctions against Russia for six months, a source in the EU Council told TASS on the sidelines of the EU summit. 
We had a very short discussion on Russia, Ukraine and the Minsk Agreements, which led to a political decision to extend the sanctions for another 6 months, the source said. 
According to the diplomat, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron briefly informed the leaders of the EU countries about the implementation of the Minsk agreements in Ukraine. The regime of sanctions against Russia is linked with these agreements. It was said that there are no changes, so sanctions are prolonged, the sanctions regime remains unchanged, the source added. 
After the adoption of the political decision of the EU summit, the official procedure for the extension of restrictive measures should begin, the diplomat noted. 
The EU's sanctions against Russia include: visa restrictions against Russian citizens, economic sanctions against a number of Russian state-owned companies in oil, defense and financial sectors, as well as restrictive measures against the Crimea. All these measures were taken in 2014. The first two types of restrictions are extended every six months, and the prohibitive measures against the Crimea - once a year. The EU summit will also touch upon the investigation of the MH-17 Boeing crash in Ukraine in July 2014. 
The Boeing-777 passenger plane operated by Malaysian Airlines crashed on July 17, 2014, en route from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur in the east of the Donetsk region. As a result, 298 people, citizens of 10 states, were killed in the crash. The parties to the armed conflict in the east of Ukraine accused each other of being complicit in the tragedy. 
Mutko congratulates all who believed in Russia’s win over Spain in World Cup match 
Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister thank all who were beside the team 
MOSCOW, July 1. /TASS/. Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister and chairman of the government’s council on the preparations for and holding of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia, Vitaly Mutko has thanked all who believed in Team Russia’s win over Spain in their Round of 16 match. 
Congratulations! Everything is fine. I congratulate all and thank all who were beside the team, who believed in them, he told TASS. 
The Russia vs Spain match was played at Moscow’s Luzhniki Stadium on Sunday. Russia defeated Spain 4-3 on penalties after the match ended 1-1 after extra time. Russian goalkeeper Igor Akinfeev saved two penalties. 
In the quarterfinals, Russia will face the winner in the Round of 16 match between Croatia and Denmark that is to be played later in the day in Nizhny Novgorod. The quarterfinals match will take place on July 7 at Sochi’s Fisht Stadium. 
Russia is staging its first-ever FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a spectacular opening show at the Luzhniki Stadium on the night of June 14. 
Eleven host cities, namely Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara, were selected to be the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup. 
A total of 32 national football teams entered the 2018 FIFA World Cup and only 16 of them proceeded to the knockout phase after the group stage, which kicked off on June 14 and ended on June 28. 
According to FIFA’s official statistics, the total number of fans at all stadiums during 48 matches of the group stage came to 2,178,894 people, which carries an average of 45,394 at each match. 
Russian-French air expedition in Arctic to cover more than 20,000 km 
The participants will test a number of technologies ahead of an expedition to Antarctica scheduled for next year 
SAMARA, July 3. /TASS/. A Russian-French air expedition to the Arctic areas starts off on Tuesday from an airdrome in the township of Krasny Yar, Samara region. Six Russians and a Frenchman are expected to cover more than 20,000 km on three amphibious planes, airman Sergei Alafinov, the CEO of Aerovolga R & D company told reporters on Monday. 
Alafinov is one of the six Russian participants in the venture. 
The route covers about 11,000 nautical miles, or 20,000 km, he said. In Russia, it stretches through the cities like Urai, Surgut, Norilsk and then Tiksi where we’ll enter the Arctic Ocean area and then will proceed to Schmidt Cape and farther on to Providence Bay. 
From there the route goes to Finland via Alaska, Canada, Greenland, Iceland, the UK, Norway and Sweden. The expedition will return to Russia from the Finnish territory and will reach the Samara region via Novgorod, Yaroslavl and Cheboksary. 
The goal of the expedition is to conduct various climatic, medical and biological experiments and to design the future routes for air tourism in the Arctic north of Russia. 
Also, the participants will test a number of technologies ahead of an expedition to Antarctica scheduled for next year. 
The group will travel on unique amphibious planes of Russian manufacture - two LA-8 [for eight persons aboard and with the haulage capacity of up to 2.6 tonnes of cargoes] and a Borei [two seats, haulage capacity of up to 700 kg]. 
The list of expedition members includes the cosmonaut Valery Tokarev, who is also the mayor of Star City township near Moscow where the Cosmonauts Training Center is located, cosmonaut Oleg Atkov, who is a corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences and French amphibious aviation pilot Loick Baise. 
Finopolis 2018 will Take Place in Sochi on 17 - 19 October 
The event is organized by the Bank of Russia with the support of the Roscongress Foundation 
The Forum of Innovative Financial Technologies Finopolis will take place in the Main Media Centre of the Sochi Olympic Park on 17–19 October 2018. The event is organized by the Bank of Russia with the support of the Roscongress Foundation. 
Key topics of Finopolis 2018: 
• Digital competition in finance 
• Data: the foundation of digital business 
• FinTech-as-usual: from pilots to industrial platforms 
• The age of AI: successes, dilemmas, the human factor 
• Cyber security: the digital economy's immune system 
• The regulatory ‘sandbox’: a game without rules or rules of the game? 
• Open Banking: pros and cons 
• InsurTech: a new model of customer relations 
• Capital markets: have the robots won? 
The Roscongress Foundation is a socially oriented non-financial development institution and a major organizer of international conventions, exhibition and public events. The Roscongress Foundation was founded in 2007 with the aim of facilitating the development of Russia’s economic potential and strengthening the country’s image by organizing international conventions, exhibitions, and public events. The Foundation develops substantive content for such events, providing companies and organizations with advice, information, and expert guidance, and offering comprehensive evaluation, analysis, and coverage of the Russian and global economic agendas. It offers administrative services and promotional support for business projects and helps to attract investment, including in the form of public-private partnerships. Today, its annual programme includes events held from Montevideo to Vladivostok, offering an opportunity to bring together global business leaders, experts, the media, and government officials in one place, creating favourable conditions for dialogue and the promotion of new ideas and projects, and assisting in the creation of social enterprise and charity projects. www.roscongress.org 
Continue 
Olga Skorobogatova, First Deputy Governor of the Bank of Russia, noted: “In the era of digitalization and introduction of technology in all spheres of life, it is not enough to simply follow the trends; it is important to be able to look ahead and set the direction for development. It is most important in the financial sector that covers the needs of all industries. Finopolis, which brings together leading representatives of the financial and IT sectors, gives a chance to look at the situation from different angles and develop the plan of action for the near future. For instance, we discussed the possibility of introducing remote identification in the banking sector at one of the first Forums, and today it is already starting to work. I am confident that Finopolis 2018 will produce new ideas that will also be in demand by the market and our citizens.” 
Students from Russian universities will participate in the FinTech Youth Day on 17 October 2018. 
The Bank of Russia's Forum has become the country's largest platform for the discussion and analysis of trends and opportunities for the use of modern digital technologies in the financial sector. The Forum annually brings together about 1500 participants from Russian and foreign companies, experts and business and government representatives. The Forum's Programme includes Expo, where market leaders and start-ups present their FinTech milestones and outlook as well as FinTech start-ups competition. 
Participants registration is now open at the Forum’s official website www.finopolis.ru. 
State Duma introducing life terms for pedophiles who do bodily harm to children 
At present, jail terms for life are envisioned only in cases of recidivism of violent sexual abuses of individuals who have not reached the age of fourteen 
MOSCOW, July 3. /TASS/. The State Duma on Tuesday endorsed a bill on extending punishments for pedophiles to life terms and on suspending the statutes of limitations for sexual crimes against children. The legislative initiative came for Duma Deputy Speaker Irina Yarovaya. 
A letter of comment on the bill says it introduces a possibility of life imprisonments for committing crimes against the sexual integrity of underage individuals entailing heavy bodily aftermaths. 
At present, jail terms for life are envisioned only in cases of recidivism of violent sexual abuses of individuals who have not reached the age of fourteen. 
Systemic sexual violence against a child most typically inflicts irreparable damage on his or her health, the letter says. 
Simultaneously, the Duma plans amending Article 78 of the Russian Criminal Code that establishes limitations on unexposed sexual crimes against underage children. The amendment will make it possible to lift the terms of limitations on the opening of criminal cases for sexual violence targeting underage children. 
This provision will embrace all the categories of crimes against children’s integrity, regardless of the degree of heinousness, the letter said. 
In addition, the bill interprets sexual violence committed against children and adolescents by the individuals living together with them as an aggravating factor. 
Proliferation of pornographic materials for children in the Internet also will also be regarded as an aggravating factor. 
A separate provision makes motivation of underage children to sexual activity via the Internet and social networks a separate criminal offense. 
The letter of comment says 9,600 underage children became victims of sexual assaults in 2017 and 4,245 children received bodily damage because of sexual violence. 
Russia, Spain exchange data on global terrorist threats — Russian senior diplomat 
Apart from that, participants in the meeting also discussed migration-related issues and the use of migration by terrorists 
MADRID, July 3. /TASS/. Russian and Spanish officials exchanged information on global terrorist threats, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Oleg Syromolotov said on Tuesday after a meeting of the bilateral anti-terrorism working group. 
We held consultations not only with foreign ministry officials, but also will all other Spanish agencies dealing with anti-terrorism activities, he said. Our delegation, too, included not only diplomats but also security and army officers because armies are now often used to repel global terrorism threats. We exchanged information about terrorism threats in the world. 
Apart from that, participants in the meeting also discussed migration-related issues and the use of migration by terrorists. Other issues in focus included measures to prevent terrorism financing, to combat extremism, and cooperation within international organizations, such as the United Nations, the Council of Europe, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and so on, he noted. We have normal, balanced relations with Spain, with its foreign ministry and security agencies. We understand each other. Although we do have some differences in our approaches to certain matters but we don’t have insurmountable differences. 
The talks were held in a very friendly, sincere atmosphere, Syromolotov added. 
England’s Dier says felt calm scoring last penalty against Colombia at 2018 FIFA World Cup 
Team England completed a list of the quarterfinalists at the 2018 FIFA World Cup after a 4-3 penalty shootout win over Colombia 
England's Eric Dier celebrates scoring a penalty goal in the 2018 FIFA World Cup Round of 16 match against Colombia at Spartak Stadium 
MOSCOW, July 4. /TASS/. England’s midfielder Eric Dier said he felt calm scoring the decisive penalty shot on Tuesday night, which saw his team winning over Colombia and advancing to the quarterfinals of the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. 
Team England completed a list of the quarterfinalists at the 2018 FIFA World Cup after a 4-3 penalty shootout win over Colombia at the Spartak Arena in Moscow on July 3 following 1-1 draw in the main time of the closing match in the round of Last 16. 
Asked after the match what were his thoughts about as he was lined up for a penalty shot, the 24-year-old Tottenham Spur FC player said I don’t know what to think about, to be honest, 
While you wait to take it, you are nervous. But once I was out, I was quite calm, Dier, who scored the decisive goal of his team’s game against the Colombian squad, said. 
England is now set to play in the quarterfinals of the world championship against Sweden in the city of Samara on July 7. The Swedish squad managed to edge Switzerland 1-0 in another Last 16 match, played earlier on July 3 in Saint Petersburg. 
In all, 32 national football teams entered the 2018 FIFA World Cup and only 16 of them proceeded to the knockout phase after the group stage, which kicked off on June 14 and ended on June 28. 
The national teams, which cleared the round of Last 16, are hosts Russia, Croatia, Uruguay, France, Brazil, Belgium, Sweden and England. 
Russia is staging its first-ever FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a spectacular opening show at the Luzhniki Stadium on the night of June 14. 
The country selected 11 host cities to be the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup and they are Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara. 
Russian academician calls for global precautions against dangerous asteroids 
MOSCOW, July 5. /TASS/. Precautions against the asteroids and meteorites bearing potential threat to the Earth should require solutions on a global scale, Dr. Radiy Ilkayev, the honorary chief research supervisor at the All-Russia Scientific Research Institute of Experimental Physics [VNIIEF, reporting to the state atomic energy corporation Rosatom - TASS] told TASS on Thursday. 
Protection from asteroids should be a task of a global scale and the efforts to resolve it should embrace, in the first place, the countries with expansive capabilities in research and technologies, Dr. Ilkayev said. You need a very high level of technologies even if you want just to trace an asteroid. 
More than that, you have to calculate its trajectory and to evaluate the risks it poses to the Earth, he said. If it does pose risk, then you’ll have to tap the ways to rebuff them. 
And if some wants to wield impact on an asteroid, a country must have high-power explosives, or in other words, thermonuclear weapons, which only great nuclear powers can afford, Dr. Ilkayev said. 
June 30, 2018, marked the 110th anniversary since the fall of a celestial object in the area of Podkamennaya Tunguska River in central Siberia. The inhabitants of local villages said they saw a huge fiery ball dash the skies. 
The body that was termed later on the Tunguska Meteorite exploded at an altitude of 7 km to 10 km. Researchers say the power of the explosion was between 40 megatons to 50 megatons. 
The explosion felled trees on an area of more than 2,000 square kilometers. 
Croatian president to attend national team’s 2018 World Cup quarterfinal match in Sochi 
Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic can possibly hold summit meetings in Sochi during her visit, the source said 
MOSCOW, July 5. /TASS/. Croatian President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic is set to arrive in Russia’s southern city of Sochi on Saturday to see her national football team playing against Russia in the quarterfinal match of the 2018 FIFA World Cup, a diplomatic source told TASS on Thursday. 
The Croatian president will be in attendance at the Fisht Stadium (in Sochi) on July 7, the source said in an interview with TASS adding that the president would be flying in from Croatia using a regular flight but did not specify the exact time of her arrival. 
The source also said that Grabar-Kitarovic, who already visited the Last 16 match of the Croatian team against Denmark (Croatia’s 3-2 win on the penalty shootout) in the Nizhny Novgorod, can possibly hold summit meetings in Sochi during her visit. 
The eight remaining teams left to fight it out for the 2018 FIFA World Cup Trophy, are hosts Russia, France, Uruguay, Sweden, Brazil, England, Belgium and Croatia. 
The matches to battle for the semifinals begin in the city of Nizhny Novgorod on Friday at 5:00 p.m. local time (14:00 GMT) when France meets Uruguay on the football pitch of the new stadium. Later in the day, the city of Kazan will host the Brazil-Belgium encounter, which kicks off at the Kazan Arena at 9:00 p.m. local time (18:00 GMT). 
The following day, Team England takes on the Swedish national squad in the city of Samara at 6:00 p.m. local time (14:00 GMT), while hosts Russia are set to face off against Croatia at the legendary Fisht Olympic Stadium at 9:00 p.m. local time (18:00 GMT) in Russia’s southern resort city of Sochi. 
According to FIFA’s official statistics, the number of fans at all stadiums during 56 out 64 total matches played at the 2018 World Cup (48 matches in the group stage and eight matches in Last 16) came to 2,576,584 people, which carries an average of 46,010 at each match. 
The World Cup in Russia has already chalked up 146 goals scored in all of the previous 56 matches (2.61 per match on the average), with the Belgian team scoring the most so far - 12 goals in four games. 
A total of 32 national football teams entered the 2018 FIFA World Cup, but narrowed down to 16 as they proceeded to the knockout phase after the group stage, held between June 14 and 28. 
Eight more teams left the list of contestants for the 2018 World Cup Trophy in the round of Last 16, which was played between June 30 and July 3. 
Russia is staging its first-ever FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a spectacular opening show at Luzhniki Stadium on the evening of June 14. 
The country selected 11 host cities to be the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup and they are Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara. 
UN monitors report attacks on journalists in Ukraine — Russian diplomat 
According to the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission’s report, 21 incidents of attacks on media have taken place in 2018 
VIENNA, July 5./TASS/. A report of the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission has mentioned 21 incidents of attacks on media representatives in Ukraine this year, as well as 71 incidents of curbs on free speech, Russia’s Permanent Representative to the OSCE Alexander Lukashevich told a session of its Permanent Council in Vienna on Thursday. 
He said manifestations of dissent with the policy of the Maidan authorities in Ukraine are inevitably suppressed, and Kiev is specifically intolerant towards independent journalism. 
According to the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission’s report, 21 incidents of attacks on media have taken place in 2018, and 71 incidents of crackdown on free speech in Ukraine. On June 26, the Ukrainian authorities deported from the country and slapped a five-year entry ban on Russian journalists Yevgeny Primakov (VGTRK) and Paula Slier (Russia Today), arriving for a conference on freedom and pluralism of the media, he said. 
Journalist Kirill Vyshinsky is still in custody for his professional activity, Lukashevich stressed. A report by the UN high commissioner for human rights late in June said the number of attacks on media professionals is growing. The European security agency OSCE is also concerned about the situation with curbs on free speech in that country. 
Vyshinsky case 
On May 15, the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) conducted a large-scale operation against the employees of RIA Novosti Ukraine accusing them of high treason. Its Editor-in-Chief Kirill Vyshinsky was taken into custody near his house early in the morning. 
Shortly after that, searches began at the news agency’s central office in Kiev, in its press center and in some journalists’ apartments, which lasted several hours. The Ukrainian intelligence agency also issued a statement saying that it uncovered the activities of a network of media structures controlled by the Russian Federation, which were used by the aggressor state as part of a hybrid information war against Ukraine. 
On May 17, the Kherson City Court in Ukraine arrested the journalist for two months. The defense team appealed the sentence, but the appeal was dismissed. The journalist is facing up to 15 years behind the bars. 
Press review: UK’s Novichok 2.0 and glimmer of hope from US congressional Russia trip 
Izvestia: Russian, US legislators 'break the ice' for bilateral dialogue 
A US congressional delegation visited Moscow for the first time since Donald Trump took the presidential reins to hold talks with high-ranking Russian officials. Despite the fact that the two sides disagree on a number of issues, there is a glimmer of hope that such meetings will become regular, Konstantin Kosachev, Chairman of Russia’s Federation Council Foreign Affairs Committee, told Izvestia. 
The delegation consisting of representatives from various committees, clearly had no mandate for negotiations as such, while its composition indicated that we would exchange views and, after hearing new arguments, part ways to think them over. The purpose of the visit and its consequences are that now the inter-parliamentary dialogue will perhaps become systemic. We were in a situation where there had been no such contacts, and now they have been de facto unfrozen thanks to this visit, he noted. 
Kosachev recalled that he had discussed the possible resumption of inter-parliamentary contacts with current Chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee Robert Corker. However, the two sides failed to break the impasse because of the domestic political climate in the US. 
Nevertheless, we conveyed a message on our willingness to resume joint meetings to future members of the Foreign Relations Committee through the US senators. We sent these signals and will be waiting for some response after the [November] elections, the Russian politician concluded. 
Although the US delegation’s visit had been planned before it was announced that Donald Trump and Vladimir Putin would meet in Helsinki, it is bound to affect the atmosphere surrounding the upcoming summit, says Yuri Rogulev, Director of the Franklin Roosevelt US Policy Studies Center at Moscow State University. He stressed in an interview with Izvestia that now Trump is not the only one who is trying to ‘break the ice’ in US-Russian bilateral relations, but there are contacts at other levels as well. 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: Amesbury poisoning likely to fuel more Western anti-Russia hysteria 
The UK has launched a probe aimed at establishing a connection between the Amesbury poisoning incident and the attack against former Russian military intelligence officer Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia in neighboring Salisbury. UK Home Secretary Sajid Javid pinned the blame for the Amesbury incident on Russia arguing that Moscow should provide specific explanations about what happened. 
However, unlike the Skripal saga, tough sanctions against Moscow seem to be highly unlikely at the moment, Kira Godovanyuk, Senior Researcher at the Center for British Studies at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Europe, told Nezavisimaya Gazeta. Bilateral relations between the UK and Russia are already in a critical state, so it is hard to imagine that the new poisoning incident will result in diplomatic expulsions, she stressed. The expert noted that it would be difficult to explain to voters why such steps are necessary in terms of the new sanctions’ practical benefits. 
On the other hand, the new ‘Novichok’ incident in Amesbury could put Russia in a much more negative light, she added. It is hard to say anything for sure now, but, for example, it was earlier assumed that provocations during the FIFA World Cup were a possibility, Godovanyuk pointed out. 
She admitted that Western countries could resort to tougher rhetoric in relation to Moscow in the wake of the Amesbury incident. In particular, one can say right now that the situation with the poisoned British couple will be extensively discussed at next week’s NATO summit. 
Izvestia: Vienna meeting to search for ways to salvage Iran deal 
Friday’s meeting in Vienna that will bring together the top Russian, Iranian, Chinese, French and British diplomats can be decisive for the Iran deal, Radzhab Safarov, Director of the Center for Modern Iranian Studies, stressed in an interview with Izvestia. 
Of course this meeting will be very important, as it will consider new proposals for outlining a common stance. The decision, which is expected to be made, will hardly be a breakthrough. However, it will help clarify the parties’ interests and bring them closer to hammering out a shared alternative agreement without US involvement. Meanwhile, Iran is waiting for a response from the EU. It needs a solid and clear stance, and progress here is quite possible. The Vienna summit will be decisive in moving towards a final decision that will be seen as Europe’s final stance, he stressed. 
When asked whether European countries can spell out any conditions to extend the nuclear deal, the expert noted that whatever the EU may propose, that will be just a proposal. Similarly, the US can suggest that Iran withdraw from Syria, but this is unrealistic. The two countries are linked by an array of important strategic interests ranging from regional security to the implementation of major geopolitical projects. Iran will never withdraw from there completely under any circumstances, he emphasized. 
If Brussels revises the nuclear deal taking its cue from the US, that will be just more proof that, despite its pomposity, (Europe) has neither any sovereignty nor any potential to protect its interests, the expert added. 
Safarov explained that the P5+1 countries, including Russia and China, were authorized by the UN Security Council and signed the nuclear deal on behalf of the global community, not on behalf of their governments. Technically, it will be pointless to preserve the deal, if the European parties quit it, because political relations between Russia, Iran and China are pretty good as they are. Moscow and Beijing support Tehran’s nuclear program without asking any unnecessary questions. They could maintain bilateral relations or agree on individual positions, which will be more effective than developing scenarios to preserve the deal artificially, he noted. 
Kommersant: Italy wants EBRD to return to Russia 
Italy’s Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte has invited Rome’s EU and G7 partners to reconsider partially resuming operations by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) in Russia. Italian Ambassador to Russia Pasquale Terracciano confirmed that in his letter to Kommersant. It stated that the issue at hand is resuming EBRD’s financing of small and medium-sized enterprises in Russia. 
According to the diplomat, in the coming months, the EBRD will be fully involved in efforts to spell out procedures for implementing that proposal. The goal of the plan is to resume the line of credit blocked in 2014, in order to give a fresh impetus to the growth of small and medium-sized businesses in Russia and, collaterally, promote the development of civil society. 
The EBRD ceased investing in Russia after Brussels and Washington slapped sanctions on Moscow in 2014. Italy believes that measures affecting the interests of Russia’s small and medium-sized business are excessive and contravene the EU’s original intent. 
According to Anton Usov, EBRD Senior Advisor in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus, if the Italian government submits a proposal, it should be considered by all the bank’s shareholder countries, including Italy, and there are 66 of them in all. Any future actions will depend on what decision they make and whether they consider the issue at all, he emphasized. 
Vedomosti: Oil exports to US could drop 13%, if Iran blocks Hormuz transit, expert warns 
With 18.5 mln barrels of oil (20% of global production) transported via the Strait of Hormuz annually, oil exports to the US could decrease 13.5% (to 52.3 mln tonnes per year), if Iran delivers on its threat to disrupt shipments over US oil sanctions, Vedomosti quotes VYGON Consulting Research Director Maria Belova as saying. 
Tehran warned earlier that it would block oil supplies via the Strait of Hormuz, the only sea passage from the Persian Gulf, if the US succeeds in stopping Iranian oil exports. 
Bahrain, Qatar and Kuwait can only export oil along this route. Tankers from Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Iraq likewise travel via that strait. These countries transport 80%, 85% and 85% of their oil through this sea passage respectively, Belova said. About 80% of oil transported via the Strait of Hormuz goes to Asian-Pacific countries, mainly China, Japan, India, South Korea and Singapore, she explained, adding that only the United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia and Iraq have working pipelines bypassing the strait. 
That being said, these threats can be seen as signals to major oil customers, that is, Asia-Pacific countries, whose weight in the political arena is growing annually, Belova went on to say. Six years ago, when the US and the EU slapped an embargo on Iranian oil, similar threats could be heard from Tehran. However, despite the fact that the EU eventually imposed an embargo on purchasing oil from Iran, they have never materialized, she explained. 
Almost one-fifth of oil could disappear from the market, while oil prices will skyrocket, warned ACRA analyst Vasily Tanurkov. However, blocking the strait completely is unrealistic, as the United States, neighboring countries and nations in the Asia-Pacific region, which receive the bulk of Iran’s oil, will not allow that, he added. 
TASS is not responsible for the material quoted in the press review 
Photo exhibition in Krasnoyarsk: How Norilsk was developing 
The city is 300km north of the Polar Circle 
TASS, July 6. The Multimedia Art Museum, Moscow (MAMM), the Norilsk Nickel (Nornickel) Company and Krasnoyarsk’s Surikov Art Museum will present in Krasnoyarsk an exhibition, devoted to development of the Norilsk city, Nornickel’s press service said. 
The exhibition’s visitors will see the story of how Norilsk, one of the northernmost cities in the world, began and developed, the press service said. The city is 300km north of the Polar Circle. 
The exposition will show how in the 1920s, a well-known geologist Nikolai Urvantsev led the beginning geology exploration of Taimyr’s ore deposits, and how in the 1930s began a most large-scale and complicated project of Stalin’s industrial revolution - construction of the Norilsk plant, the press service added. 
Photos for the exhibition come from archives of NKVD (which later on was called KGB), the State Archive, the Moscow House of Photography, as well as from Nornickel’s archives. The exposition includes works by a prominent Soviet photographer Vsevolod Tarasevich. 
MAMM and Nornickel have brought the exhibition to Krasnoyarsk as a present to the local people. The exhibition is devoted to Norilsk’s 65th anniversary and the company’s Day. The exposition at Krasnoyarsk’s Surikov Art Museum will be open from July 13 to August 5, 2018. 
Croatia enters 2018 FIFA World Cup semis edging out hosts Russia on penalty shootout win 
SOCHI, July 7. /TASS/. The Croatian national football team entered the semifinals of the 2018 FIFA World Cup knocking out hosts Russia in the quarterfinals match on Saturday night in Sochi with the 4-3 penalty shootout win following 2-2 draw in the regular and 30-minute overtime period. 
The almost 45,000-seat capacity Fisht Stadium, which also served as the opening and the closing venue of the 2014 Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games, saw a full-house attendance on Saturday night registering the figure of 44,287. 
Russia was to kick of the ball after the referee’s coin toss and the hosting team, dressed in the red-and-white color uniform, went on numerous offensives against their opponents from the onset of the game. 
The Croatian players were quick to take back the initiative in the game and by the middle of the first half they registered the ball possession at almost 70% against Russia’s slim 30% 
However, it was Russia’s Denis Cheryshev to cannon a clear shot in one of the counter attacks into the upper corner of the Croatian net to open the score on the 31st minute of the game. 
The following time in the first half saw the referee booking two Croatian players. The Croatian team, which played in a dark uniform sporting the national flag as well as the flag of Russia, responded on the 39th minute of the game with a sharp header from forward Andrej Kramaric. 
The draw of 1-1 remained flashing on the scoreboard as both teams retreated for the 15-minute break ahead of the second half,. 
The match in Russia’s southern resort city of Sochi on Saturday was attended by Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, FIFA President Gianni Infantino and Croatian President Kolinda Grabar-Kitarovic. 
The second half saw various acute attacks both on the Russia and Croatian goals, but despite five minutes of the added time the match ended with the 1-1 draw going into the overtime to decide the team for the semifinals round. 
In the opening 15-minute stretch of the overtime, Croatia’s defender Domagoj Vida headed a ball into the direction of the Russian goal from a corner kick and it bounced off the grass going into the net making it impossible for Russia’s goalkeeper Igor Akenfeev to save it. The score went up to 2-1 and stayed unaltered deep into the second half of the overtime period, when Croatia’s defender Josip Pivaric was flashed a yellow card for tipping the ball with a hand. 
In the following free kick Russia utilized its opportunity with Mario Fernandes putting a netter past Croatian goalkeeper Danijel Subasic to tie the score at 2-2. 
During the following penalty shootout Croatia was successful to edge Russia 4-3. 
A total of 32 national football teams entered the 2018 FIFA World Cup, but narrowed down to 16 as they proceeded to the knockout phase after the group stage, held between June 14 and 28. 
Eight more teams left the list of contestants for the 2018 World Cup Trophy in the round of Last 16, which was played between June 30 and July 3. 
After a pair of the quarterfinal matches played on Friday, team France enjoyed a confident defeat of 2-0 over Uruguay in the city of Nizhny Novgorod, while Belgium went for 2-1 win over the legendary Brazilian team in the city of Kazan. 
Earlier on Saturday, Team England also cleared the quarterfinal round of the 2018 FIFA World Cup with a 2-0 win over Sweden and is now set to meet Croatia at the Luzhniki Stadium in Moscow on July 11. 
Russia is staging its first-ever FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a spectacular opening show at Luzhniki Stadium on the evening of June 14. 
The country selected 11 host cities to be the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup and they are Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara. 
Putin, Trump need to discuss cybersecurity issues — expert 
Russian President Vladimir Putin and his US counterpart Donald Trump will meet in Helsinki on July 16 
MOSCOW, July 9. /TASS/. It will be important for Russian President Vladimir Putin and his US counterpart Donald Trump to discuss cyber security issues at their meeting scheduled to be held in Helsinki on July 16, Andrei Bystritsky, the Chairman of the Board of the Valdai International Discussion Club’s Development and Support Foundation, told TASS on Monday. 
We are facing a situation when our various activities - including defense, information, trade and cultural ones - take place in a virtual digital world. The situation requires some regulation, the expert said. 
Bystritsky mentioned several most important aspects of cyber security. This particularly includes defense security because weapons are operated through digital devices and the process is becoming more and more complex. This can also be said about banking activities, the management of big cities, energy industry, as well as information and communications, he added. 
In this regard, the Russian expert touched upon the reliability of information. It has never been so hard to tell the truth from lies, so all the talk about fake news and the post-truth era comes as no surprise, Bystritsky said, adding that people, including responsible politicians, make decisions based on the reliability of the information they receive. 
Our digital world system is highly vulnerable to the attacks of those who are inclined to act in an aggressive, barbaric way. Radical terrorists are very much willing to enter this sphere, he noted. 
Russian Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said earlier that global cyber security issues could be put on the Russian-US summit’s agenda. 
Qatar ready to learn from Russia’s experience while organizing 2022 FIFA World Cup 
Seven Qatari cities will host FIFA World Cup matches between November 21 and December 18, 2022 
MOSCOW, July 11. /TASS/. Qatar is ready to learn from Russia’s experience while organizing the 2022 FIFA World Cup, Khalid Al Naama, the Media Relations Senior Officer of Qatar’s Supreme Committee for Delivery and Legacy, responsible for the 2022 World Cup host country plans and operations, told reporters. 
Seven Qatari cities - Doha, Lusail, Al Wakrah, Al Khor, Al Rayyan, Umm Salal and Madinat ash Shamal - will host FIFA World Cup matches between November 21 and December 18, 2022. 
We have sent more than 80 delegates to Russia to observe and learn about the experience here in Russia, Al Naama said. I think it’s going to be very helpful for us, especially when it comes to something as unique as the Fan ID that was brought to the picture here in Russia. I think this is something that we will seriously think of to apply in Qatar-2022, he added. 
I went to three stadiums, I went to Spartak, Luzhniki and St-Petersburg, the Qatari official went on to say. I think Spartak Stadium is very unique. It’s not a matter of being beautiful or not, but I think it’s a very unique stadium, having all services, facilities in one side, it’s very compact, he noted. 
I really loved Spartak, I think, Spartak would be my pick as the best stadium and that doesn’t mean that I support [FC] Spartak [Moscow], Al Naama concluded with a smile. 
Israel hits three military targets in Syria in response to UAV’s infiltration 
The Israeli military vowed to operate determinedly and decisively against breaches of the country's sovereignty 
TEL AVIV, July 12. /TASS/. The Israel Defense Forces (IDF) have delivered strikes on three military targets in Syria in response to the infiltration of a Syrian drone into the Israeli territory, the IDF spokesperson twitted on Thursday. 
The IDF targeted three military posts in Syria in response to the infiltration of the Syrian UAV into Israel that was intercepted by the IDF earlier today [on Wednesday], the tweet reads. The IDF will continue to operate determinedly and decisively against any attempts to hurt Israeli civilians and breaches of Israeli sovereignty. 
Earlier on Wednesday, Israel Defense Forces downed an unmanned aerial vehicle over the Israeli territory. Israeli military spokesman Lieutenant-Colonel Jonathan Conricus said that the Israeli Defense Forces had been monitoring the drone since it entered the demilitarized zone separating Syria and Israel on the Golan Heights. According to Conricus, the unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) had flown approximately ten kilometers into Israel before being shot down by a Patriot missile in the south of the Sea of Galilee, in northern Israel. Previously, the drone had penetrated into Jordan’s airspace. 
The IDF holds the Syrian regime accountable for the actions carried out in its territory and warns it from further action against Israeli forces, the IDF spokesperson wrote. The IDF is highly prepared for many different scenarios and will continue to act as necessary in order to ensure the safety of Israeli civilians. 
Organizers hail Fans’ Embassies at 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia as ‘a success’ 
The Fans’ Embassies are a special project of the Football Supporters Europe, an independent, grassroots network of football fans in Europe 
MOSCOW, July 13. /TASS/. The work of Fans’ Embassies at the Russia-hosted 2018 FIFA World Cup can be described as a success, said Elena Erkina, head of Fan Embassy Russia, at a news conference in TASS on Friday. 
This is the first time we carried out a project on this scale. We provided assistance to both Fan Embassies and foreign fans on a wide range of issues, Erkina said. 
We organized the lively social part, which is of great importance from the point of view of the World Cup’s legacy. During the tournament, 30 friendlies were played to bring together fans from 18 countries, she said. Foreign visitors have been enjoying the football festival, and our task was to ensure their comfortable, safe and secure stay in Russia. 
The project was a success, and feedback from our partners and host cities just proves this, Erkina added. Orchestrating a massive, bright and intensive program with support from our Western partners, and of course, with the participation of the fans, has been a tremendous experience for us. 
The Fans’ Embassies are a special project of the Football Supporters Europe (FSE), an independent, grassroots network of football fans in Europe. FSE along with the Russian Football Union, Rostourism and host cities organized friendly matches played by supporters, fanwalks, and other activities, involving fans and supporters from 26 countries. 
Russia is staging its first-ever FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a remarkable opening show at Luzhniki Stadium on the evening of June 14. 
The country selected 11 host cities to be the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup and they are Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara. 
The battle for third place in the 2018 FIFA World Cup will occur in St. Petersburg on July 14 between the national football teams of Belgium and England. On July 15, France and Croatia will clash for the 2018 FIFA World Cup trophy at Luzhniki Stadium in the Russian capital. 
Kremlin expects Putin-Trump meeting to be first step in improving bilateral relations 
The goal of the upcoming meeting is to finally begin efforts to improve the negative situation in the Russian-US relations, the presidential aide said 
MOSCOW, July 13. /TASS/. The Kremlin hopes the upcoming meeting between Russian and US Presidents, Vladimir Putin and Donald Trump, will be the first step towards normalizing relations between the two nations, Russian president’s aide Yuri Ushakov said on Friday ahead of the Putin-Trump meeting in Helsinki on July 16. 
The goal of the upcoming meeting, as we see it, is to finally begin efforts to improve the negative situation in the Russian-US relations, to take concrete steps to normalize them, to rebuild a more or less acceptable level of trust, to try to outline steps that will make it possible to resume mutually beneficial cooperation on matters of mutual interest, he said. 
There are a lot of spheres where interests of our countries are either close or identical, he noted. First of all, it is international security, the disarmament dossier, joint efforts against international terrorism, joint work to settle regional conflict situations, as we see a lot of them now, and, finally, a very important topic for both countries - improving bilateral relations. 
We are ready for this meeting, Ushakov said. We are ready to discuss absolutely all key issues of the bilateral and international agenda. 
GCL System Integration Raises Guidance for 1H 2018 To RMB 20.41 million–RMB 30.02 million 
Turning Losses Into Profit, Company Set To Match 2017 Performance 
SUZHOU, China, July 16, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- GCL System Integration (SZ: 002506) (GCL-SI), the world's leading provider of one-stop, cutting-edge, integrated energy systems, has revised its forecast for net profit attributable to shareholders in the first half of 2018 to between RMB 20.41 million and RMB 30.02 million (US$3.05 million to US$4.49 million), matching last year's performance and representing a significant turnaround from the loss projected in its the first quarter earnings report. 
In GSL-SI's first quarter report, net loss attributable to shareholders was RMB 147 million, with performance loss in the same period expected to be between RMB 100 million and RMB 0. GCL SI's second quarter profit was estimated to be around RMB 200 million yuan. 
According to the second quarter announcement, thanks to a cyclical peak season for the photovoltaic industry, GCL SI had sufficient orders to sustain booming production and sales. Although the impact caused by the 5.31 New Deal, such as reduced domestic demand for PV products, was felt strongly in the installed capacity of Chinese domestic PV power plants, the company has already shifted its focus to overseas markets to diversify and expand its customer base. The company's share of sales to overseas markets has rapidly increased from 14% in the first half of 2017 to the current 50%. Big overseas orders have a stabilizing effect on the company's performance when the domestic PV industry is volatile. 
GCL SI, while adapting to changes in markets, industrial policies and customer needs, has been proactively diversifying its business. By integrating premium social resources, the company is exploring robust second pillar businesses to enhance its risk resilience and profitability. 
About GCL-SI 
GCL System Integration Technology Co., Ltd. (002506.SZ) (GCL-SI), is part of the GOLDEN CONCORD Group (GCL). GCL-SI delivers a one-stop, cutting-edge, integrated energy system and is committed to becoming the world's leading solar energy company. 
Russia interested in peace in Golan Heights and Israel’s security — Putin 
The situation in the Golan Heights must be brought in full compliance with the 1974 disengagement of forces agreement between Syria and Israel, Putin said 
HELSINKI, July 16./TASS/. Russia is interested in peace in the area of the Golan Heights and security of Israel, Russian President Vladimir Putin told a news conference after summit talks with US President Donald Trump on Monday. 
He said that after the defeat of terrorists in the south-west of Syria, the situation in the Golan Heights must be brought in full compliance with the 1974 disengagement of forces agreement between Syria and Israel, which will make it possible to return calm to this region, restore the ceasefire between the Syrian Arab Republic and Israel and ensure Israel’s security. 
Mister President (Trump) has paid specific attention to this today. I want to confirm that Russia is interested in such development of the events and will adhere exactly to such position, Putin said. 
Thus, the first move will be made towards establishing a just and lasting peace on the basis of Resolution 338 of the UN Security Council, the Russian leader added. 
Russia to expel Greek diplomats 
MOSCOW, July 19. /TASS/. Russia will expel Greek diplomats, the dates of their expulsion and the number of diplomats due to be expelled are unknown yet, Russian Ambassador to Greece Andrei Maslov informed TASS on Thursday. 
We have already said that tit-for-tat measures will follow. I don’t know when, who and the exact number, but, of course, in accordance with the existing practice, there will be retaliatory measures, he said. 
On July 11, the Greek Kathimerini daily reported citing diplomatic sources that Athens had decided to expel two Russian diplomats and ban another two from entering the country. According to the daily, the Greek authorities accuse the diplomats of interfering in the country’s domestic affairs and undermining the national security of Greece. 
The newspaper said that the diplomats were particularly accused of attempts to obtain and disseminate information and bribe state officials. Greek Cabinet Spokesman Dimitris Tzanakopoulos later confirmed this information about the expulsion of diplomats. For its part, the Russian Foreign Ministry said that Moscow would take tit-for-tat measures in response to this move. 
Russia completes pop-up tests of most advanced Sarmat ICBM 
The development of new strategic weapon systems is aimed at increasing Russia’s defense capability and preventing any aggression against Russia and its allies, the Defense Ministry stressed 
MOSCOW, July 19. /TASS/. Russia has completed the pop-up tests of the most advanced Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM), the Defense Ministry announced on Thursday. 
The program of the system’s pop-up tests has been completed with the positive results, which makes it possible to switch to preparations for the flight trials of the Sarmat missile complex, the Defense Ministry said. 
All the measures that have been carried out allow for making a clear conclusion that the Sarmat missile system will be created and placed on combat duty within the scheduled timeframe, the ministry said. 
Chairman of the Military and Scientific Committee of Russia’s Strategic Missile Force Colonel Artyom Vyatkin earlier said that more than 50 assignments had been fulfilled as part of the Sarmat pop-up tests, making it possible to confirm the proper design solutions for the missile, the systems and assemblies of its launch vehicle and confirm their reliability, and also to test the technology of preparing the missile for the launch and the modes of its pre-launch preparations and the launch cyclogram. 
In order to provide for the flight tests of the Sarmat ICBM, Russian industrial enterprises have modernized and retooled their production capacities, created the necessary inventories and are making the preparations for the manufacture of a pilot batch of missiles, he said. 
The development of new strategic weapon systems is aimed at increasing Russia’s defense capability and preventing any aggression against Russia and its allies, Russia’s Defense Ministry stressed. 
Sarmat ICBM 
The RS-28 Sarmat is the Russian promising silo-based missile complex with the heavy liquid-propellant ICBM capable of carrying nuclear charges. Russia has been developing the Sarmat since the 2000s to replace the R-36M2 Voyevoda ICBM operational in the country’s Strategic Missile Force since 1988. It weighs about 200 tonnes and has a throw weight of about 10 tonnes. 
In late December 2017, the media reported about the first successful pop-up test of the Sarmat ICBM. New pop-up tests were announced in late March. As the Defense Ministry’s newspaper Krasnaya Zvezda reported, the tests confirmed the system’s characteristics during the pre-launch preparations and at the initial stage of the missile’s flight. Also, Russia’s Strategic Missile Force got convinced in the proper design and technical solutions made in the missile’s development. 
The serial production of the Sarmat ICBM is expected to begin from 2020 and in 2021 the first regiment armed with this missile is expected to assume combat duty. 
Russia, China block US request for banning oil product deliveries to North Korea 
Russia and China asked for more time to scrutinize the document and requested ample proof that the allotment for the supplies had been used up 
UNITED NATIONS, July 19. /TASS/. Russia and China have turned down a US request at a committee of the UN Security Council to ban supplies of oil products to the DPRK in the absence of Washington’s proofs and methodology, a UN diplomatic sources told TASS on Thursday. 
The American side submitted a proposal on banning the supplies of oil products to the DPRK to Committee No. 1718 on July 12, the interlocutor said. Russia and China asked for more time to scrutinize the document and requested ample proof that the quota for the supplies had been used up. 
On July 12, the US accused the DPRK of encroachments on the UN Security Council’s sanctions restricting the exports of oil products to that country. Washington also made claims about transshipment of oil products on high seas. 
According to a Reuters report, the US Administration also made a demand to Moscow and Beijing that they stop any supplies of oil products to the DPRK immediately. 
Takeaway ends in hospital stay: Russian kebab eatery leaves dozens with food poisoning 
In total, 187 people have sought medical attention and 99 have been hospitalized 
MOSCOW, July 20. /TASS/. About 190 people picked up a severe case of food poisoning in Russia’s Tuva Region, and nearly 100 of them have been hospitalized, Tuva Regional Head Sholban Kara-ool informed on Friday. 
Visitors to a local kebab place ended up suffering from an intestinal infection. In total, 187 people have sought medical attention over the past couple of days, and 99 have been hospitalized. The other 88 are receiving ambulatory treatment at home under supervision of local physicians and pediatricians. As of today, 13 people have left the hospital because their condition improved, while 86 people remain hospitalized, the head of Tuva wrote on his VK account. 
Most patients are in moderate, satisfactory or stable conditions. There are no concerns that their conditions may worsen. Medical professionals are working extra shifts due to the widespread poisoning outbreak. Moreover, extra beds have been put in the hospitals. 
The restaurant where this rash of food poisonings took place is currently closed, an inspection of its suppliers is underway. The Interior Ministry of Tuva initiated criminal proceedings under the article Violation of sanitary and epidemiological norms causing mass poisoning through negligence. 
Reportedly, what caused the poisoning was the chicken meat brought from other regions. According to the Tuva office of Russia's consumer rights watchdog, the investigators have pinpointed the meat suppliers and contacted their offices in the Voronezh, Khakassia and Krasnoyarsk Regions on suspicion of a possible source of the infection. 
Putin says no final decision on retirement age increase so far 
When decision of such scale and such sensitivity for people are taken, specific matters and actual professional forecasts should be employed, the president said 
KALININGRAD, July 20. /TASS/. No final decision has been taken so far on the retirement age increase, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday at a meeting with World Cup volunteers. 
When decision of such scale and such sensitivity for people are taken, specific matters and actual professional forecasts should be employed, Putin said. 
The president adds that he intends to listen to all opinions and all points of view in this regard and monitor the discussion that has started recently. 
If nothing is done for optimization of the pension system or the budget used to finance pension commitments, then earnings of retirees will also have to be kept at a low level and they will always complement the so-called ‘poor people’, Putin said. Instead, we must increase revenues of people so that to reduce the number of the poor, he added. 
Ticket sales for F1 Russia Grand Prix on four-fold increase against last year — Deputy PM 
22,000 tickets have been already sold 
SOCHI, July 20. /TASS/. A volume of ticket sales for the 2018 FIA Formula One Grand Prix in the Russian resort city of Sochi, scheduled for September 28-30, saw a four-fold increase compared to last year, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak said. 
The 2018 FIA Formula One Championship includes 21 races and began with the Australian Grand Prix in Melbourne on March 23-25. The final Grand Prix of this season will be held in Abu Dhabi on November 23-25. 
The ticket sales program is very successful. As of today, the volume of sold tickets increased by four times compared to the same period last year. Kozak told journalists on Friday adding that 22,000 tickets had been already sold. 
Alexey Titov, the CEO of the Rosgonki company, in charge of organizing the Russian Grand Prix in Sochi, announced earlier in the year that ticket prices for the much-anticipated race begin at 3,990 rubles (about $63). 
The inaugural Formula One race in Sochi in 2014 and the next one in 2015 were held in October, but the following two Grand Prix races (in 2016 and 2017) were rescheduled to late April and early May timeframe. This year the race in Russia was rescheduled again. 
Sochi Autodrom track is the only racing circuit in Russia hosting a FIA Formula One Grand Prix. Located in the Olympic Park, which hosted the 2014 Winter Olympic Games, the 5,848-meter long racing circuit in the Black Sea coastal area successfully hosted four F1 Grand Prix races and is preparing for another race this September. 
The contract to include Russia in the calendar of F1 racing for the 2014-2020 period was signed in 2010 in Sochi by then-Prime Minister Vladimir Putin and former Formula One chief executive Bernie Ecclestone. Early last year, the contract to hold F1 racing in Russia’s Sochi was extended until 2025. 
In late 2014, the Sochi Autodrom was awarded the trophy of Formula One’s best racing track of the year. The Race Promoters' Trophy is a rotating award, engraved with the names of other top F1 tracks dating from 1975. 
Robot readies for space ride: Russia to test 3 Fedor models before flight on new spaceship 
The robot will be the sole passenger in the launch 
MOSCOW, July 23. /TASS/. Russia will make and test three prototypes of the android robot Fedor before a flight aboard the Federatsiya spacecraft in 2022, Project Head of the National Center for the Development of Technologies and Robotics Basic Elements at the Advanced Research Fund Sergei Khurs told TASS on Monday. 
The robot’s test flight is scheduled during the first launch of the new Russian spacecraft Federatsiya (Federation) in 2022. The robot will be the sole passenger in that launch, he said. 
The first prototype for the flight tests [aboard the Federatsiya spacecraft] is planned to emerge by mid-2019. Overall, three prototypes will be made. They will be involved in various types of pre-flight tests (autonomous, design development and comprehensive trials), Khurs said. 
Android Technics and the Advanced Research Fund under a technical assignment from Russia’s Emergencies’ Ministry created the android robot Fedor. The robot’s demonstration model under the Rescuer project was made in 2016. 
Originally, the robot was known under the notional name of Avatar but it was recently dubbed, FEDOR, which stands for Final Experimental Demonstration Object Research. 
The future crewed spacecraft Federatsiya (Federation) is set to replace Russia’s Soyuz-MS space vehicles and is designed to deliver humans and cargoes to the near-Earth orbit and to the Moon. The Federatsiya spacecraft will have a crew of up to four persons. The spacecraft will be able to operate in an autonomous mode for up to 30 days and up to a year as part of an orbital outpost. 
US and EU should simultaneously ‘drop all Tariffs, Barriers and Subsidies’, Trump says 
On July 25, Donald Trump will meet with European Commission President Jean Claude Juncker 
WASHINGTON, July 25. /TASS/. US President Donald Trump suggested on late Tuesday that the European Union should simultaneously with the United States lift all customs tariffs, trade barriers and subsidies. 
The European Union is coming to Washington tomorrow [July 25] to negotiate a deal on Trade, US President Trump wrote in his Twitter account. I have an idea for them. 
Both the US and the EU drop all Tariffs, Barriers and Subsidies! Trump stated. 
That would finally be called Free Market and Fair Trade! Hope they do it, we are ready - but they won’t! the US president added. 
President Trump is scheduled to hold talk in Washington on July 25 with President of the European Commission Jean Claude Juncker. The upcoming talks are viewed by various experts as the last chance to avert a full-scale trade war between the United States and the European Union. 
The European Union is coming to Washington tomorrow to negotiate a deal on Trade. I have an idea for them. Both the U.S. and the E.U. drop all Tariffs, Barriers and Subsidies! That would finally be called Free Market and Fair Trade! Hope they do it, we are ready - but they won’t! 
European Commission’s spokesperson Margaritis Schinas said on Monday that Juncker did not intend to make particular proposals regarding the mutual trade at the meeting with President Trump. Schinas said This is an occasion to de-dramatize any potential tensions around trade and to engage in an open and constructive dialogue with our American partners. 
US White House spokesperson Hogan Gidley announced on Tuesday that President Trump intended to bring up at the meeting with the chief of the European Commission issues regarding bilateral trade and the fight against terrorism. 
Washington introduced in March new duties on steel and aluminum products - 25% for steel and 10% for aluminum. The newly-introduced tariffs had a particular impact on the EU-produced steel and aluminum, while US President Trump also suggested introducing a 20% duty on all European imported cars. 
The EU announced earlier that it would proportionally respond to American trade tariffs, as well as initiate proceedings as part of the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
Ex-Ukrainian defense chief charged over calls to blow up trains in Russia 
A criminal investigation has been launched against Gritsenko over public calls to carry out terrorism activity 
MOSCOW, July 25. /TASS/. Russia’s Investigative Committee has brought charges in absentia against former Ukrainian Defense Minister Anatoly Gritsenko over his public calls to blow up railway trains in Russia, the IC’s press service said on Wednesday. 
According to the investigators, during the livestream of an online conference of the Studio 1+1 TV broadcasting company on July 16, 2014 Gritsenko called in public to carry out terror attacks on Russia’s territory by blowing up railway trains. 
A criminal investigation has been launched against Gritsenko over public calls to carry out terrorism activity under Part 2 of Article 205.2 of the Russian Criminal Code. 
Another criminal probe has been opened over Gritsenko’s calls during the broadcast by Channel 112 Ukraine on July 2, 2017 to stage terror attacks in Moscow and Taganrog. Now the criminal cases into two crimes committed by Anatoly Gritsenko have been united into one proceeding and he has been charged in absentia, the IC said. 
Under Article 12 of the Criminal Code foreign citizens not residing in Russia on a permanent basis who committed crimes outside Russia aimed against Russia’s national interests are subject to criminal liability under the Russian law. 
Yulia Skripal makes phone call to cousin in Yaroslavl 
YAROSLAVL, Jul 26. /TASS/. Yulia Skripal, a Russian citizen who became the target of an alleged chemical attack in Salisbury, UK, together with her father Sergei on March 4, has made a phone call to her cousin Viktoria, who lives in the Russian city of Yaroslavl, some 250 km to the northeast of Moscow. 
They spoke about Sergei’s health, Viktoria told TASS. 
Yulia and I spoke on our grandma’s birthday [Sergei Skripal’s mother], she said. Yulia called us on July 24 to greet the grandma. She told me she was OK but Sergei still had a tracheostoma and he would call us on his own after they removed it. 
At present Yulia is busy taking care of her own health and her father’s heath, too, and she refrains from naming any dates of her possible return to Russia, Viktoria said. 
She reported Yulia’s calls on two occasions - in April and at the beginning of July. 
After the incident that involved Sergei and Yulia, Viktoria has applied for a UK visa on several occasions to visit them but the British authorities denied the entry to her. 
Alleged Russian agent Butina complains about food in US pre-trial detention center 
Butina also expressed opinion that she is pursued for her political views 
WASHINGTON, July 27. /TASS/. Staff members of the Russian Embassy in the US visited on Thursday alleged Russian agent Maria Butina, who complained about food in the Correctional Treatment Facility in Washington, the diplomatic mission said on its Facebook page. 
Butina feels normal, but she has problems with food, the embassy said. The Russian citizen is denied the right to walk and another inconvenience is that the prison guards turn on the light every 15 minutes at night. 
We will take steps to release Maria. The next visit is scheduled for Thursday, August 2. We will continue providing her with consular assistance and every support, the diplomats said. 
Butina expressed opinion that she is pursued for her political views. 
Soon Maria will be allowed to make phone calls. She will be also able to get correspondence sent to the prison’s address, the diplomatic mission said. 
Maria asked to say hello to her parents, noting that she is determined to prove her innocence, the statement said. 
Butina’s case 
The 29-year-old Maria Butina was arrested in Washington on July 15, on the eve of the Helsinki summit between Russian President Vladimir Putin and his US counterpart Donald Trump. The Russian gun rights activist faces the charges of conspiracy for conducting activities in the interests of a foreign state. The investigators claim she engaged in these activities without registering as a foreign agent at the US Department of Justice. 
The FBI said Butina entered the US in August 2016 on a student visa and took up studies at the American University. She received the master’s degree in international relations in May 2018, according to her lawyer. 
Butina is a member of the board of the Russian public associations ‘The Right to Guns’. In this capacity, she attended the National Prayer Breakfast in Washington in February 2017 where President Donald Trump took part. 
On July 21, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov underlined in his telephone conversation with US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo that US actions against Russian citizen Maria Butina were inadmissible. 
Japanese, Russian foreign, defense ministers to meet in Moscow on July 31 
TOKYO, July 27. /TASS/. Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono will visit Moscow on July 31 and attend a 2+2 format meeting between the Japanese and Russian foreign and defense ministers, the Japanese Foreign Ministry told a news conference on Friday. 
I’m heading to Russia to take part in the 2+2 format talks due in Moscow on July 31, Taro Kono said. 
The Japanese foreign minister will hold a meeting with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov, the ministry said. At the upcoming talks in Moscow the sides plan to discuss issues linked to signing the peace treaty, and also key issues of the international agenda. During the negotiations the sides will also discuss security and Russian-Japanese economic cooperation. 
The first 2+2 Russian-Japanese meeting was held in Tokyo in November 2013. However, negotiations were frozen because of the Ukrainian crisis and Tokyo’s decision to join anti-Russian sanctions. A decision on a new meeting was made during Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to Japan in December 2016. It took place in Tokyo in March 2017. 
Japan's top diplomat stresses Russia’s ‘important’ role in resolving North Korean issue 
Taro Kono also noted that Russia and Japan exchange views on the situation on North Korea at different levels, including at the level of the heads of state and foreign ministers 
TOKYO, July 30. /TASS/. Russia plays an important role in solving problems related to North Korea, Japanese Foreign Minister Taro Kono told TASS. 
Russia is a participant in the six-party negotiations and permanent member of the UN Security Council, and its role in solving the North Korean problem is important, said Kono who left for Russia on Monday to take part in the two-plus-two talks between the two countries’ foreign and defense ministers. 
Taro Kono also noted that Russia and Japan exchange views on the situation on North Korea at different levels, including at the level of the heads of state and foreign ministers. 
The US and North Korean leaders held the first ever meeting in Singapore on June 12. US President Donald Trump and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un signed a joint document following the negotiations. Pyongyang said it was ready to fully denuclearize the Korean Peninsula, while the United States pledged to provide security guarantees to North Korea in return. 
Greek minister of justice to make decision on extradition of Russian national, says lawyer 
Vinnik was arrested in Greece on July 25, 2017 at the request of the US 
ATHENS, July 30. /TASS/. The Greek minister of justice will make the final decision on the extradition of Russian Alexander Vinnik to Russia, the US or France, Vinnik’s lawyer Timofei Musatov told TASS on Monday. 
It is the minister of justice who will make the decision to extradite Alexander Vinnik [on the conflicting requests from Russia, the US and France] in any case, and he will sign the documents to transfer the Russian, Musatov stressed. 
The question is what his [the minister’s] choice will be like - which is more political rather than judicial. That is why, considering that relations between Greece and Russia sharply deteriorated, two Russian diplomats were expelled, and competing accusations continue, whereas the decision will be taken in the purely political framework, we would like the decision to be taken with regard to good neighborly relations between Russia and Greece, not the way they are now. 
Speaking about the repeated request from the Russian Prosecutor General’s Office to extradite Vinnik to Russia that was satisfied by the Thessaloniki court, Musatov said that investigators in Russia launched a criminal case against Vinnik under Article 159.6 of the Russian Criminal Code (Fraud in the sphere of computer information) for a sum of 750 million rubles ($11.9 million). 
The second request from Russia covers all the crimes Vinnik is charged with in the US, which means that Russia charges him with the same crimes and will investigate these crimes on its territory, as it should be, the lawyer said. Not the way the US could investigate crimes committed on Russian territory and on the territory of other countries, violating all principles of international law and jurisdiction. In this case, if we assume that Alexander Vinnik committed any crimes, then it is the Russian side that has to investigate them, not the American one, and there is parity in this case now. 
However, Musatov said, the third request for Vinnik’s extradition that emerged from France changes the situation a bit. When the US realized that it won’t receive Vinnik, a French fast-tracked extradition warrant appeared, which is more effective than court requests, strangely enough, the lawyer said. Its effect is the following: Vinnik’s chances to be transferred to France for investigation are higher than to the US or Russia, as he is not charged with any criminal offenses in France, nor held accountable in any way, [because] there is not even a criminal case against Vinnik in France. Still, it will be the Greek minister of justice who will make the ultimate decision, Musatov stressed. 
Requests for extradition 
Vinnik was arrested in Greece on July 25, 2017, at the request of the US, which charges him with the laundering of four to nine billions of dollars through BTC-e, the now nonexistent cryptocurrency trading platform. The Russian Prosecutor General’s Office sent two requests for Vinnik’s extradition, as a criminal case had been launched against him in Russia on charges of large-scale fraud. France recently sent another request, saying that from January 1, 2016 to June 14, 2018 and in other periods Vinnik extorted and laundered money on French territory as a member of a criminal gang. That said, the Russian national has never been to France and has stayed in Thessaloniki’s main isolation cell since the summer of 2017. 
In October 2017, the Thessaloniki court ruled to extradite Vinnik to the US, but his lawyers appealed against the decision. Then the court ordered to extradite the convict to Russia. On July 13, 2018, the Thessaloniki court studied France’s request for Vinnik’s extradition at a session on fast-tracking the procedure and satisfied it, but the lawyers appealed against this ruling as well in the Supreme Civil and Criminal Court of Greece. It will study the appeal against the Russian’s extradition to France on September 4. 
On July 30, the Thessaloniki court studied the repeated request from the Russian Prosecutor General’s Office to extradite Vinnik to Russia and satisfied it. 
Russia’s top prison warden vows to punish anyone responsible for brutality cases 
Russia’s top prison warden has promised his subordinates they would inevitably be punished for any incidents similar to the one that had occurred in correctional facility №1 in Yaroslavl 
MOSCOW, July 31. /TASS/. Director of the Russian Federal Penitentiary Service Gennady Korniyenko has promised his subordinates they would inevitably be punished for any incidents similar to the one that had occurred in correctional facility №1 in the city of Yaroslavl northeast of Moscow. 
I want to emphasize the key thing that will allow us to overcome this situation and make sure that there are no such cases in the future. Everyone must realize that a crime will inevitably be followed by punishment, he said at a video conference with senior officers and personnel of the Federal Penitentiary Service’s territorial departments. 
Each employee will be punished to the extent of his guilt, he stressed. 
According to Korniyenko, an inspection is underway on this brutal incident. Senior officers and personnel resolutely condemn the behavior of these employees and regret that incidents, which discredit the penitentiary system, have taken place in it, he said. I believe we will eventually assess it duly, even through criminal punishment, to prevent that from happening again. 
The video conference was devoted to a new law regarding service in the penitentiary system and the fulfilment of duties by Federal Penitentiary Service officers, including the use of physical force and special tools in the wake of the incident in Yaroslavl where an inmate had been beaten. 
Employees of all territorial departments, from senior officers to off-duty junior staff, participated in the video conference. 
Seleka rebels may be behind Russian journalists’ killing in CAR — media 
Kirill Radchenko, Alexander Rastorguyev and Okhran Dzhemal were captured and murdered some 24 km from Sibut 
MOSCOW, August 1. /TASS/. /TASS/. Russian journalists could have been killed in the Central African Republic by members of the Muslim rebel group Seleka, local radio reported on Wednesday citing sources among the authorities. 
The Russian Embassy in the Central African Republic said on Tuesday three men were found dead near the city of Sibut (300 kilometers north of the CAR’s capital city Bangui) on July 30. The Russian Foreign Ministry said later the men had press cards featuring the names Kirill Radchenko, Alexander Rastorguyev and Okhran Dzhemal. 
The bodies were discovered on Tuesday morning by members of the UN Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in CAR (MINUSCA), the radio reported. The authorities believe that the murder could have been the work of the Seleka rebels. The staff members of MINUSCA delivered the bodies to Bangui on July 31. 
The radio reported citing the CAR authorities that the Russian journalists arrived in Bangui on July 27 and on Monday they headed in an off-roader to the country’s north, first to Dekoa and then to Kaga-Bandoro to make a documentary. The driver was a CAR national. At around 6:00 p.m. on July 30 they were stopped at a roadblock of the national security service when leaving Sibut. The journalists were warned about the danger of driving in the dark time. 
Later, some 24 km from Sibut, the journalists were captured and murdered, the radio said. They were captured by nearly 10 bandits wearing turbans, who spoke only Arabic. Three Russians were killed at the scene. The driver managed to escape and he informed the authorities about the incident at around 5:00 a.m. 
The Russian Foreign Ministry said the staff members of the Russian Embassy in Bangui were in close contact with the local law enforcement and governmental bodies to establish all the circumstances of the Russian citizens’ death and carry out the procedures to send their bodies back home. Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said the relatives would be provided with all the necessary assistance. 
The Russian Investigative Committee has launched a criminal investigation into the murder. 
The Central African Republic gained notoriety over numerous coups d’etat and armed conflicts. The domestic political situation deteriorated in 2013 when the Seleka coalition, consisting predominantly of Muslims from the north, took control of Bangui, toppling President Francois Bozize. In response to the militants’ atrocities the Christians and followers of traditional African religions set up the Anti-balaka militia groups, which started pursuing Muslims. 
In September 2014, MINUSCA was established consisting of 12,500 troops and police officers. However, clashes continue in the country, in which civilians and peacekeepers are killed. 
Trade wars among factors for oil price decline in July, Russian Economy Ministry says 
Oil prices changed after the OPEC+ decision to boost production 
MOSCOW, August 1. /TASS/. Oil prices declined in July against the background of the OPEC+ decision to increase production and market concerns regarding global growth prospects because of initiated trade wars, the Russian Ministry of Economic Development said in its review on Wednesday. 
Oil prices changed to a decline after the OPEC+ decision to boost production. Concerns of market participants in respect of global growth prospects in the environment of unveiled trade wars become one more factor for dropping prices of oil and other commodities, the Ministry said. 
Urals oil prices declined by $4.7 and were $73.1 per barrel as of month-end, according to the review. 
OPEC data regarding the dramatic increase of oil production in Saudi Arabia in June, by more than 400 thousand barrels daily, also exerted pressure on the market. 
Number of crimes in Moscow falls by half during FIFA World Cup 
MOSCOW, August 2. /TASS/. The number of crimes committed in Moscow fell by half during the FIFA World Cup compared with other months, the city police said reporting about the performance in the first six months of 2018. 
During the World Cup in Moscow, 8,937 crimes were registered, almost half the number in other months, the police said. 
Nearly all crimes carried out during the tournament were uncovered. 341 criminals, who had been at large, were detained. Some 76 pieces of non-lethal and hunting weapons were seized in Moscow. Public order violations, including clashes between fans, were prevented, the police stressed. 
Moscow police have prevented nearly ten percent more terror-related crimes since the beginning of 2018 compared to the same period of 2017. 
Together with other law enforcement agencies, police officers prevented nine percent more terror-related crimes, the statement reads. 
In addition, around 4,000 crimes committed by organized criminal groups, including ethnic ones, have been solved. More than 1,000 criminal bosses and active members of organized criminal groups have been identified. 
Around 9,000 crimes were recorded during activities aimed at curbing illegal drug trafficking, over half a tonne of drug, psychotropic and powerful substances were seized, the police added. 
Draft law on sanctions will hit Russia-US relations not Moscow’s policy, says lawmaker 
MOSCOW, August 3. /TASS/. The new draft law on sanctions against Russia introduced by the US Senate may be adopted, but it will hurt bilateral relations between the countries, not Moscow’s policy, Chairman of the Federation Council Committee for Foreign Affairs Konstantin Kosachyov said in a conversation with TASS on Friday. 
The initiative proposed by a group of American senators in normal, regular conditions would not have any prospects, as there are no grounds for sanctions. However, the anti-Russian sentiments in the Congress have hit a fever pitch now, and the American politicians will be losing their common sense ahead of the November 6 [midterm parliamentary] election out of the current concerns of the election campaign. So, the specified notorious project may be brought to light sooner or later as a law, the committee head stated. 
If it is adopted, the consequences for the Russian-American relations, including their parliamentary component, will be rather negative, Kosachyov went on. He highlighted that the issue concerns negative effect only for bilateral relations, and not from the perspective of the influence over the Russian domestic and foreign policy. In this regard the US sanctions were void of any real prospects all along and will be void of them, no matter how much odiousness and aggression is added to them, the senator summed up. 
The Russian Civic Committee also linked the introduction of the draft law on sanctions with the upcoming midterm election to the Congress, during which one-third of the Senate and the entire House of Representatives will be re-elected. Head of the Civic Chamber Commission for Public Diplomacy, Humanitarian Cooperation and the Preservation of Traditional Values Yelena Sutormina said in a conversation with TASS that the American politicians are trying to justify the unfulfilled promises to tackle domestic problems, and for this purpose an external enemy should be found. 
There is also animosity, as the [previous] restrictive measures failed to deal a devastating blow on our country’s economy, she concluded. 
Private capital needed to revive Russian space industry, Roscosmos chief says 
Russian space industry needs to switch to serial-produced satellites, according to Dmitry Rogozin 
YAROSLAVL, August 6. /TASS/. The Russian space industry can be revived only with the help of private investors, State Space Corporation Roscosmos Chief Dmitry Rogozin said on Monday. 
We believe that the revival of the Russian space industry will be linked with the attraction of the private investor, the Roscosmos chief said at the ceremony of launching into operation a facility at the Yaroslavl radio factory for the assembly of payload modules. 
Up to now, the Russian rocket and space industry had been working on the market of launch services, where we held leading positions. However, in the past few years, we have lost the leading positions and, importantly, we have come to realize that the basic market involves not the delivery of some others’ payloads into outer space but the creation of our own payloads, the Roscosmos chief said. 
We are not going to cede our leadership in outer space to anyone. We respect our country and will compete tightly with all our rivals, Rogozin said. 
Rogozin also said that Russian enterprises manufacturing satellites should switch to their serial production to provide communications, navigation and the Internet for the country. 
In order to provide our large country with unified communications and unified navigation, we must switch from the creation of individual items to the serial production of satellites, Rogozin said. 
Press review: What new US sanctions against Iran entail and can Japan become nuclear power 
Kommersant: What the new US round of sanctions against Iran entails 
The first package of American restrictive measures against Tehran in the wake of Washington’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal has come into effect. The sanctions reimposed by the US have been approved by Israel, while the European Union said the decision was regrettable. 
All large corporations headquartered in Europe are likely to leave Iran, because they have to choose between the American and Iranian markets, Andrei Baklitsky, an expert with the PIR Center, told Kommersant. Medium and small companies, which have no representatives in the US and whose bulk of trade is in euros could stay in Iran. It is not improbable that, with the EU Blocking Regulation coming into force, Europe will be able to create a reasonable system, under which contacts with Iran will be possible, he said. 
According to the expert, Chinese, Turkish and Indian companies, which are less dependent on the US market, have more opportunities to stay in Iran. 
US President Donald Trump said last week that he is ready for direct talks with Iran without any preconditions. However, the experts interviewed by the paper doubt the effectiveness and even probability of such a meeting. According to Baklitsky, no decisions followed Trump’s previous meetings with North Korean and Russian leaders, Kim Jong-un and Vladimir Putin. The very fact of the talks was important at that moment. However, the situation with Iran is completely different. Trump is a very unpopular person, and a meeting without further agreements is pointless, the expert stressed. 
Meanwhile, Hamidreza Azizi, Assistant Professor of Regional Studies at Tehran-based Shahid Beheshti University, pointed to remarks by US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo who put forward some preconditions for negotiations with Tehran after Donald Trump’s statements. The expert also recalled that Iran’s authorities continue to believe that the ball is now in Washington’s court. 
Rossiyskaya Gazeta: Russia and WTO - six years on 
Russia’s calculations concerning the accession to the World Trade Organization (WTO) have been fully justified, Yekaterina Mayorova, Deputy Director of the Trade Negotiations Department at the Russian Economic Development Ministry told Rossiyskaya Gazeta. 
We do not see any examples of disastrous or dire consequences for any industry in the aftermath of Russia’s accession to the WTO. In agriculture, we have had a growth of more than 12% over the 5 years that followed our accession, and in industry, more than 3%. Moreover, we have quite a few untapped opportunities to protect our market. We have a single customs tariff, which is used in the Customs Union and which is based on Russia’s obligations. We also have an opportunity to reconsider our obligations in the event of some mistakes in the parameters and conditions for our accession. We do not use this reserve now, as excessive protectionism is harmful, she emphasized. 
According to Mayorova, the fact that Russia has recently won two WTO disputes opens up new opportunities for Moscow. The first lawsuit we have won was formally filed against Ukraine. However, considering that the legislation of that country actually copies the European Union’s legislation, the victory in that dispute could influence the outcome of a similar dispute with the EU. We have achieved a truly good result in the dispute with Ukraine, and we will have something to fall back on in our dispute with the European Union, she explained. 
When asked whether a trend towards reducing WTO influence amid trade wars and sanctions is being observed, the expert explained that the trade war had actually been unleashed by one of its members, which accounts for about 13% in global imports. Nevertheless, the countries that account for the remaining 87% continue to see the WTO as the only universal system of rules and the only universal organization, which has the necessary tools and mechanisms to coerce its members to fulfill their obligations, she stressed. 
Experience has shown that trade wars and chaos related to them result in nothing good, and there can be no winners in such wars, the expert added. Blackmail, attempts to force certain decisions through can have a short-term effect. I do not think, however, that the United States will stand to gain from the steps it takes now in the long-term perspective, she said. 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: China sees Syria as an important economic opportunity 
China has economic interests in Syria, while statements on Beijing’s willingness to step up its military presence in that country should be considered with a certain degree of caution, Alexei Maslov, Head of the School of Oriental Studies at the Higher School of Economics, told Nezavisimaya Gazeta. 
China has been present there before the Syrian events, developing relations, for example, with the oil industry. When the civil war began, China was at a disadvantage. That’s why it is quite natural that China is joining the Syrian operation now that the conflict is nearing completion. China, all else aside, will carry out humanitarian operations. In that case, China is likely to take part in restoring Syria’s infrastructure, for example, railways. 
However, the expert is skeptical about statements made by Chinese Ambassador to Syria Qi Qianjin who earlier did not rule out that his country could take part in the upcoming offensive on the Idlib Governorate. China has said it could take part in such events more than once, but these statements have never been translated into action. The Chinese people can support the Syrian campaign because expanding influence throughout the globe is an important component of the political process for China, the expert pointed out. 
He expressed doubt however that Washington would be annoyed if Chinese troops are sent to Syria. Beijing will not be a third force. It will be operating on a free platform where money and economic mechanisms are required, Maslov said. 
Izvestia: Natural gas for air traffic not Russia’s national priority yet 
Russia’s air traffic has been removed from plans to switch to the use of natural gas, Izvestia writes. This initiative was put forward by the Russian Transport Ministry last year. Natural gas fuel was regarded as a feasible alternative to traditional aviation fuel. However, the new program drawn up by the Russian Energy Ministry states that all funds will be earmarked for automotive transport. 
The top-priority objective for promoting gas as fuel today is the development of the gas market and the relevant infrastructure for motorized vehicles, the Energy Ministry’s spokesman told the paper. Plans are in store to promote the use of natural gas in other types of transport, including air traffic, in the future. 
According to Interaviagas CEO Vyacheslav Zaitsev, air traffic was invariably present in all government plans aimed at expanding the use of natural gas as motor fuel. 
Many aviation specialists were surprised by the fact that air traffic had been removed from the Energy Ministry’s program, he told Izvestia. There are no objective reasons whatsoever to strip aviation enterprises of an opportunity to take part in implementing an important national program and the task set by the Russian president, namely, the transfer to natural gas fuel. 
According to the expert, aviation is the dominant type of transport in Russia’s Arctic and Far North regions. In his view, the transfer of regional aircraft to natural gas fuel could help solve such problems as increasing transport accessibility for the population and the development of regional air transportation. 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: Japan could become a nuclear power 
Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has said his country should lead the movement in favor of complete nuclear disarmament. In his speech at a ceremony to mark the 73rd anniversary of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, Abe reaffirmed Japan’s commitment to three non-nuclear principles: not to possess, not to manufacture and not to deploy nuclear weapons on its soil. 
However, theoretically speaking, Japan does not rule out the option of becoming a nuclear power, Valery Kistanov, Director of the Center for Japanese Studies at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute for Far Eastern Studies, told Nezavisimaya Gazeta. Smart politicians must foresee any scenarios for a long-term perspective. After all, Japan is certain that North Korea has no intention of abandoning nuclear weapons. 
That is a fundamental threat for Japan, the expert stressed. It is not implausible that Korea will become a unified state someday. No one can tell whether it will be a non-nuclear or a nuclear power. Who knows, perhaps we or our descendants will witness the creation of a powerful nuclear Korean state. Meanwhile, anti-Japanese sentiment is strong in both North and South Korea, the expert said. 
Japanese media often criticize the government for failure to sign the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons, Kistanov added. By the way, Japan has long sought the incumbent US president’s visit to Hiroshima and Nagasaki so that he could see with his own eyes the horrors of the atomic bombing. In 2016, Barack Obama eventually came there. Together with Abe, he called for nuclear disarmament. However, Obama offered no apologies for the atomic bombing. The Americans will never apologize for that, the expert concluded. 
TASS is not responsible for the material quoted in the press review 
Russia to feature upgraded giant military transport helicopter at Army-2018 forum 
Russian Helicopters rotorcraft manufacturer will for the first time feature the upgraded Mil Mi-26T2V heavy-lift helicopter with the latest avionics suite and defensive aids system 
ROSTOV-ON-DON, August 7. /TASS/. Russian Helicopters rotorcraft manufacturer (part of Russia’s hi-tech corporation Rostec) will for the first time feature the upgraded Mil Mi-26T2V heavy-lift helicopter with the latest avionics suite and defensive aids system at the Army-2018 forum, the company’s press office said on Tuesday. 
The Mi-26T2V lighting equipment has now been adapted for using night-vision goggles and new energy-absorbing crew seats have been installed in the helicopter’s cabin, the press office said. 
The helicopter prototype developed for Russia’s Defense Ministry has been manufactured at the Rostvertol enterprise and will soon perform its debut flight. 
The helicopter is planned to fly to the Army-2018 exhibition on its own. After the forum, specialists of the Mil Moscow Helicopter Factory will hold a set of Mi-26T2V preliminary trials. After they are over, the helicopter will be delivered to the military for state trials, the Russian Helicopters press office said. 
Each unit in the helicopter should provide maximum efficiency. The Mi-26T2V onboard equipment makes this helicopter still more effective and reliable even during its operation in adverse weather and rugged terrain, Russian Helicopters Group CEO Andrei Boginsky said. 
New helicopter 
Following the customer’s requirements, the Mi-26T2V should be able to perform missions even in regions with complex physical and geographic features and unfavorable climatic conditions day and night over featureless terrain amid enemy counter-fire and information counter-measures, Russian Helicopters Group explained. 
The Mi-26T2V features the new Vitebsk defensive aids suite, which both detects threats to the helicopter and counters attacking infrared homing warhead weapons. 
The helicopter’s navigation and satellite-based communications systems and rescue equipment have also been improved. 
The new helicopter differs from the baseline Mi-26 model by its modern integrated NPK90-2V (BREO) avionics suite, which considerably simplifies the helicopter’s piloting, the company’s press office said. 
The advanced BREO avionics suite allows performing flights along the route in an automated mode, reaching the designated point and making a landing approach and also carrying out pre-landing maneuvering and returning to the basic and alternate airfields. 
In addition, the helicopter features the digital flight control system while the crew’s cabin is equipped with the colored liquid crystal multifunctional displays that considerably reduce load on the crew. 
Russia’s upgraded strategic bomber to feature advanced avionics suite 
Tu-22M3M features absolutely new onboard radio-electronic equipment, Tupolev Aircraft Company CEO said 
MOSCOW, August 7. /TASS/. Russia’s first heavily upgraded Tupolev Tu-22M3M strategic missile-carrying bomber has been outfitted with new radio-electronic equipment, Tupolev Aircraft Company CEO Alexander Konyukhov told TASS on Tuesday. 
As a result of deep modernization, we have actually got a new plane, Tu-22M3M. It features absolutely new onboard radio-electronic equipment, the chief executive said. 
As another result of the work carried out on the plane, its service life will be extended to 45-50 years, he said. 
The Kazan Aviation Enterprise told TASS that the entire new avionics suite, the sight and navigation system and other onboard equipment of the modernized Tu-22M3M bomber had been standardized with the similar systems of the Tu-160 aircraft in its Tu-160M version. 
Russia to roll out upgraded strategic missile-carrying bomber on August 16 
The Tupolev Aircraft Company announced on Tuesday it would roll out the upgraded Tu-22M3M strategic bomber in Kazan on August 16. 
On August 16, we are rolling out the Tu-22M3M, the press office said. 
The ceremony of rolling out the modernized strategic bomber will be held on the territory of the Kazan Aviation Enterprise. 
Russia’s upgraded strategic bomber to perform debut flight in September 
Russia’s heavily upgraded Tupolev Tu-22M3M long-range missile-carrying bomber will perform its first demonstration flight in September, Tupolev Aircraft Company CEO Konyukhov told TASS on Tuesday. 
In September, the plane will perform its debut flight as part of factory trials, following which it will enter state joint trials that will last several months, the chief executive said. 
Following the results of the state joint trials, Russia’s Defense Ministry will make a decision on the deep modernization of the first batch of operational Tu-22M3 aircraft. 
The Tu-22M3M is a modernized version of the Tu-22M3 long-range supersonic missile-carrying bomber with the variable-sweep wing. During its upgrade, the bombers will get new avionics and a possibility to use new missiles. 
As was reported earlier, 30 aircraft will be upgraded to the level of the Tu-22M3M. 
Press review: Russia sanctions bill restrains Trump and Moscow-Athens ties at lowest point 
Top stories in the Russian press on Wednesday, August 8 
Izvestia: Trumped-up evidence used in court battles against Russia 
The practice of creating fake news and presenting it to the public through reputable media is part of the system of bringing official charges against a particular country, which is being actively used in international courts, Queen's Counsel from Brick Court Chambers Michael Swainston, who presents Russia’s interests in the European Court of Human Rights on the case of Georgia vs. Russia, as well as Kiev-initiated trials, told Izvestia. He considers the trend of using fake news and trumped-up evidence to be a serious threat for the global system of law, peace and security, adding that the contents of precarious videos and online pictures should be taken with a grain of salt. One picture can replace a thousand of words, but all words in this case may turn out to be a lie, he added. 
Swainston has compiled evidence in a 160-page report about fabricated packages, groundless statements and doctored photos being dished up as ‘facts’ to be eventually used as a base for charges against Moscow, Izvestia writes. In the document, he proves that the strategy targeting Russia with the help of fake news and their numerous publications involves social networks, prominent media outlets and reputable international structures. Discrepancies and direct contradictions regarding the August 2008 events in South Ossetia and the Donbass conflict are used as examples in the report. Summing it up, the British lawyer stressed that lawyers and judges cannot allow using propaganda as evidence. Disputes can only be effectively settled if the guarantees of neutrality and transparency are observed in fact-finding, otherwise the court’s findings are no longer credible, which is threatening for the whole system of international law, Swainston emphasizes. 
The national legislation of the majority of states envisions responsibility for fabricated evidence and attempts to package fake news as facts, Azhdar Kurtov, a political analyst and expert at the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies, told the newspaper. He agrees with Swainston that such cases of twisted facts undermine the efficiency of the global legal system. However, international organizations, particularly the European Court of Human Rights, have no mechanisms to investigate such manipulations, which is why any falsifications unveiled bear no threat of consequence for the guilty side, apart from a lost case, Kurtov explained. 
Kommersant: US anti-Russia bill restrains Donald Trump rather than Moscow 
US Senanor Lindsey Graham and his three colleagues have drafted a bill on new sanctions to be slapped against Russia, which mainly contains provisions regarding President Donald Trump rather than Russia, Kommersant writes with reference to the document. Senators suggest that the president should bring all anti-Russia restrictions imposed earlier into a single system, form a sanction-related coordinating office in the US government for reaching respective agreements with the European Union, block dollar-denominated payments for Russian banks, ban transactions with newly-issued Russian state bonds for US residents, create a national center to tackle the Russian threat, search for President Putin’s assets globally and even resolve the issue of recognizing Russia as a state sponsoring terrorism. 
The bill obtained by Kommersant urges Donald Trump to support efforts on preventing the Russian government and other foreign players from interfering in the work of US public departments and the country’s democratic processes. It also demands urging the Russian government to bring Crimea back under Kiev’s control and stop supporting separatists’ violence in eastern Ukraine, as well as on the territory of Georgia and Moldova. Another request addressed to Donald Trump is to make Russia abandon the support of Syrian President Bashar Assad, who continues committing military crimes, as the authors put it. The document indicates that the senators, both from the Republican Party and the Democratic Party, consider Trump to be a hardly predictable politician, the paper says, describing a whole mechanism aimed at preventing the president from withdrawing the United States from NATO. Overall, it looks more like a domestic affairs project, in which Moscow’s role is more or less low-key compared with the US President who is too soft on Russia, Kommersant says. 
Kommersant: US unofficially finds Saakashvili guilty of starting 2008 war 
In 2007 and 2008, Washington kept convincing the Russian side that Georgian President Mikheil Saakashvili would not go to the lengths of a military conflict in South Ossetia, and admitted after the events of August 2008 that he had broken all pledges, Russia’s Special Presidential Representative for Nature Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov said in an interview with Kommersant - in 2008 he held the position of Deputy Prime Minister in charge of the military-industrial complex. I can avow that Condoleezza Rice, when she served as US Secretary of State, kept telling me in one-on-one conversations that he (Saakashvili) would not cross the red line, Ivanov told the paper. 
After Tbilisi’s overnight attack on South Ossetia on August 8, the pace of developments, including the recognition of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, and the reaction of the West showed that deep in their minds all western leaders were perfectly aware of who was responsible for the situation, and why all of this had happened, he said. They realized that their creation Saakashvili had breached all promises, crossed the red line and broken off the leash, excuse me, Ivanov said, adding that Rice told him about it after the military conflict. She said that the Americans had nothing to do with it, they were not behind the attack. She admitted it had been Saakashvili’s initiative and he was responsible for the war. But it happened in a private conversation since she is a wise woman, he explained to Kommersant. 
According to Ivanov, the fact that Moscow recognized the independence of Abkhazia and South Ossetia is not related to the wish to keep Georgia away from NATO. If the United States and their NATO allies, their NATO satellites wanted to allow Georgia to join NATO even without Abkhazia and South Ossetia, I assure you that they would have done it easily, he stressed. Another thing is that NATO is led by fairly right-minded people, who will think through carefully before taking a serious step like that. I hope they would not take it, but this is another story. They will if they want to. In this case they will have to admit that Abkhazia and South Ossetia are independent states though, Ivanov said. 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: Russia-Greece conflict still up in the air 
The relations between Moscow and Athens have reached their lowest following the diplomatic crisis, Nezavisimaya Gazeta writes, adding that Greek authorities consider Russia’s move to expel diplomats in response to July’s expulsion of two Russian diplomats from Athens, to be asymmetrical. The relations have deteriorated substantially, though the basis was laid after Tsipras came to power, Vice President of the Center for Political Technologies Alexey Makarkin told the paper. Initially Russia cherished hopes related to the figure, thinking that non-system leftist forces would come to power in Greece. Moscow hoped that when the EU started the talk about sanctions Tsipras would refuse to give permission. But nothing of the kind happened, the expert said, adding that this marked the beginning of a rift in relations between the two countries. 
According to Makarkin, Greece has turned out to be too dependent on the EU’s financial support. Naturally there were romantic calls to drop the euro and shift to the drachma there, but those were only calls. Russia failed to compete with the EU in terms of the financial recovery of Greece, as it had no such funds, he noted. The expert believes that there are few things that bring Russia and Greece together. Greece is not Russia’s ally. It is a member of the North Atlantic bloc. One can only say that when facing sanctions, Russia considered Greece to be a weak spot in the European Union considering the crisis of Greek elites, and considering non-systen Tsipras (coming to power), Makarkin explained. 
As reported earlier Athens decided to expel two Russian diplomats and ban another two from entering the country in July. Greek authorities accused the diplomats of interfering in the country’s domestic affairs and undermining national security. Greek Cabinet Spokesman Dimitris Tzanakopoulos later confirmed the information about the expulsion of diplomats. In turn, the Russian Foreign Ministry warned that Moscow would take tit-for-tat measures. 
Vedomosti: Russian oil producers to bring up tax maneuver provisions with president 
Russian oil companies plan to discuss with President Vladimir Putin certain provisions of the so-called tax maneuver that has already been approved by the Russian parliament and signed into law, Vedomosti writes with reference to authorities and sources in oil firms. The meeting may be held after August 27, when Putin will head a fuel and energy commission in Kemerovo, the sources said. 
The commission itself will not focus on the tax maneuver that is aimed at reducing the dependence of the Russian budget on export duties, which go down when there's a drop in global oil prices. The law has been adopted, there is nothing to discuss, a source in the government’s financial block told the paper. However, it may be followed by a new meeting, sources told Vedomosti. Four of them said that oil companies are ready to bring up the issue of excise duties on oil products after December 2018, whether and how much they are going to be raised. Some of them said that oil producers are willing to ask for amendments to the law enabling the sector to receive an extra 3 trillion rubles ($47 bln), the publication says, adding though that representatives of Lukoil and Gazprom Neft, as well as the Energy Ministry and Finance Ministry have not confirmed the information. 
TASS is not responsible for the material quoted in the press reviews 
Kola MMC invests $1.4 mln in data processing center 
The data processing center at the Kola Mining and Metallurgical Company will use computer systems to manage metals’ extraction and production 
MURMANSK, August 9. /TASS/. The data processing center at the Kola Mining and Metallurgical Company (Kola MMC, a part of Norilsk Nickel) will use computer systems to manage metals’ extraction and production. The company invested more than 90 million rubles ($1.4 million) in the project, Kola MMC’s press service told TASS on Thursday. 
Kola MMC has finished work to organize a data processing center, investments in which made more than 90 million rubles, the press service said. 
The data processing center will serve Nornickel’s both enterprises in the Murmansk Region - in Monchegorsk and in Zapolyarny. The center will raise effectiveness of the mining, enrichment and metallurgical divisions. 
The final result of this program would be a system of multivariate planning and automatic operations control to raise the company’s operational effectiveness, the press service added. 
The data processing center is a complex of engineering infrastructures, which unites the earlier and current information systems at Kola MMC. The dispatch and management automatic system offers online information on the engineering systems’ states and parameters and reflects conditions of equipment and technology processes. The data processing center unites more than 700 items of equipment. 
Russian premier compares new sanctions to declaration of economic war 
Medvedev was asked what sanctions could be imposed on Russia in the future and how they can affect the country’s economy 
KRONOTSKY NATURE RESERVE /Kamchatka/, August 10. /TASS/. The possible tightening up of economic sanctions against Russia may be treated as a declaration of economic war, which must be responded by all economic, political and other means possible, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said during his visit to the Far Eastern Kamchatka Peninsula. 
During his visit to the Kronotsky State Nature Reserve, Medvedev was asked what sanctions could be imposed on Russia in the future and how they can affect the country’s economy. 
I would like not to comment on the talks about future sanctions, but there is one thing I can say: if measures like a ban on banking activities or the use of this or that currency follows, this can be clearly be described as a declaration of an economic war. And this war will have to be responded - by economic, political and, if necessary, other means. And our American partners should realize this, the prime minister said. 
Speaking about sanctions currently in place and those recently announced, Medvedev said that despite the declared political reasons behind them, those measures are intended mostly to limit our economic power. 
In the past hundred of years, our country existed in the conditions of the constant pressure of sanctions. Why is this being done? In order to eliminate Russia from the list of powerful rivals on the international arena, he said. 
18th-century wooden church destroyed by fire in northwestern Russia can be restored 
The Dormition Church was one of the tallest wooden churches in northern Russia 
PETROZAVODSK, August 10. /TASS/. The 18th-century wooden Orthodox Church of the Dormition of the Theotokos, which burned to the ground in the city of Kondopoga located in Russia’s northwestern Karelia Region, could be restored, Svetlana Kuspak, Chief Specialist at the Regional Cultural Heritage Protection Department, told TASS. 
The church can be restored, there can be no doubt about that. The scientific documentation has been fully preserved. How much it will cost and how long it will take is another story, she said. 
The Dormition Church is a federal cultural heritage site, its level is comparable to UNESCO sites. It’s unique and well-known, Kuspak stressed. 
According to the Russian Emergencies Ministry’s regional directorate, the fire was reported at 09:33 Moscow time on August 10. The first firefighting crews arrived at the scene at 09:41 Moscow time. The ministry’s press service informed TASS that the church had been completely destroyed by fire. 
The fire could have been caused by tourists’ careless actions, the Petrozavodsk and Karelia diocese of the Russian Orthodox Church reported on its website. 
The Dormition Church in the city of Kondopoga is a monument of federal significance built in 1774. It is also a wooden architecture monument and a branch of the Kondopoga City Museum. <…> One of the versions is that the fire was caused by tourists’ careless actions, the diocese said. It noted that the building was not the property of the Russian Orthodox Church, and there were no church services in it. The last priest, Father John Lyadinsky, was shot in 1937. 
According to the republican Cultural Heritage Protection Center, the Dormition Church was one of the tallest wooden churches in northern Russia. It was 42 meters high, its length was 24 meters and width - 14.6 meters. 
Government to prepare report on extra earnings of resource companies 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said earlier Vladimir Putin has agreed to develop the idea of taking out bumper profits from mining and chemical companies 
MOSCOW, August 10. /TASS/. The Russian government will prepare a report on extra revenues of resources companies generated as a result of changes in the international situation and the currency rate, First Deputy Prime Minister Anton Siluanov told reporters on Friday. 
The government, in accordance with the presidential assignment, will prepare a report on extra revenues of resource companies occurred as a result of changes in the international situation and the currency rate. All circumstances will be thoroughly studied, arguments of companies will be listened to, and potential consequences will be calculated. An impact of certain proposals on the business climate will be investigated separately, Siluanov said. 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said earlier on Friday that Russian President Vladimir Putin has agreed to develop the idea of taking out bumper profits from mining and chemical companies, commenting on a respective proposal submitted by Presidential Aide Andrei Belousov to President, adding though that no decision has been taken yet. 
Berlin Wall: Photos from the birth of a Cold War symbol 
On August 13, 1961, the East German government began to build a wall between East and West Berlin, the most visible symbol of the decades-long Cold War 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 13 
An East German worker lays some of the first stone blocks of the Berlin Wall, shortly after the border between East and West Berlin was sealed, 1961 
Berlin's historic Brandenburg Gate was put behind part of the wall erected by the East German regime to separate East Berlin and West Berlin, 1961 
An East German couple is turned away from the border, blocked by East German soldiers and barbed wire, after trying to cross into West Berlin, 1961 
Members of the East German military remove paving blocks on Friedrich Strasse in East Berlin as East Germany tightened the border crossing, 1961 
East Berlin youngsters with toy guns play at being “people’s police” as they look over the concrete wall in the Bernauer Strasse, 1961 
A boy sitting on the shoulders of another child peers at the Liesen Street in Wedding, West Berlin, over the wall towards the eastern part of the city, 1961 
East German border guards take a ladder back over the wall to East Berlin after correcting the border line between the West Berlin district of Wedding in the French sector and Prenzlau in East Berlin, 1989 
US President John F. Kennedy views East Berlin, East Germany, from an elevated platform at Checkpoint Charlie along the Berlin Wall in West Berlin, West Germany, June 26, 1963 
A couple kiss in front of a painting of former Soviet leader Leonid Brezhnev, and long time East German communistic leader Erich Honecker at the East Side Gallery, the largest part of original remains of the Berlin Wall, 2014 
On August 13, 1961, the East German government began to build a wall between East and West Berlin, the most visible symbol of the decades-long Cold War. The history of this concrete barrier that physically and ideologically divided Berlin from 1961 to 1989 — in pictures. 
Russia is ready to abolish visas for some categories of Turkish citizens 
Turkish Foreign Minister said, Russia abolishes visas for businessmen, senior officials and diplomats 
ANKARA, August 15. /TASS/. Russia is ready to abolish visa regime for some categories of Turkish citizens, said Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu at the 10th annual Ambassadors’ Conference in Ankara on Wednesday. 
We reached agreements with Russia to abolish visas for businessmen and holders of official passports, the TRT TV channel quoted him as saying. According to Cavusoglu, the Russian-Turkish working group will discuss this issue after Eid al-Adha, which is celebrated in the country this year on August 21-24. 
The official passports include passports for senior officials and diplomats 
In 2010, an agreement was signed under which the two countries’ citizens could enter Russia and Turkey for a term of up to 30 days visa-free. On January 1, 2016, Moscow suspended the operation of a visa-free regime with Ankara. This measure was taken after Turkey had downed Russia’s Su-24 bomber on the border with Syria on November 24, 2015. 
On April 15, 2016, Ankara introduced visa regime against Russian citizens who enter Turkey with service passports. The holders of diplomatic and internal passports still could visit Turkey visa-free. On June 1, 2016, the Turkish side extended its visa regime against professional drivers and people accompanying them who have Russian citizenship and carry out cargo and passenger transportations to Turkey. 
In October 2016, the Turkish side raised the issue of abolishing visa restrictions that were introduced earlier. However, after the murder of Russian Ambassador to Turkey Andrei Karlov on December 19, 2016, Moscow decided to freeze negotiations on this issue for an indefinite term. 
Yamal’s transport, social spheres to benefit from railway construction — regional head 
The Northern Latitudinal Railway will be 686 km long 
TASS, August 16. Construction of the Northern Latitudinal Railway (NLR) - a new railway line in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Region - will help in improving situations in the region’s transport and social spheres, the Region’s Acting Governor Dmitry Artyukhov told TASS. 
Earlier reports said the Russian government had ordered the railway would be built under a concession agreement. The government’s website published the document on Wednesday. 
This is an event, we have been waiting for… this is a very important project for our people, who wanted to have a bridge across the Ob, the official said. NLR’s construction means development of the economy, and we shall be able to spend additional tax revenues for construction of new kindergartens, schools, sports complexes and other social infrastructures. 
He named concession, the public-private partnership a most progressive form to implement such a capital-intensive project. 
Construction of the Northern Latitudinal Railway will allow us to implement the tasks related to development of the Russian Arctic, outlined by the president, he added. This railway line will be used in development of new deposits, it will reduce travel time and will make easier the logistics from West Siberia, taking a part of the cargo, which now is transported along the Trans-Siberian Railway. 
In the project, the local government will be an investor for construction of the bridge across the Ob, the press service said. The bridge will connect Salekhard and Labytnangi. The regional government allocates 8.2 billion rubles ($122.7 million). The construction’s active phase will begin in 2019. 
According to the presidential envoy to the Urals Federal District Nikolai Tsukanov, local construction companies will be involved in the project. 
We have discussed local cooperation, which is a very important issue, but, unfortunately, not all works, including implementation of state programs, are carried out by regional and local companies, he told TASS. There are enough skilled specialists both in projecting and in construction (for the bridge across the Ob - TASS), and Chelyabinsk is not an exception, thus we are looking into all the programs, all state investments and will try to see ways of cooperation, so than the money remains in the region. 
The Northern Latitudinal Railway 
The Northern Latitudinal Railway will be 686 km long. The investments will make more than 230 billion rubles ($3.4 billion). 
In October 2016, Russia’s railway company, RZD, and government of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Region agreed the project. 
The new transport line will favor the region’s complex economic and transport development. The existing transport infrastructures are not sufficient for planned exploration and development of natural deposits and for transportation of extracted materials. The railway will also connect the national transport systems via the Sabetta seaport with the Northern Sea Route. 
New bomber Tupolev-22M3M presented in Kazan 
The Tupolev-22M3M was equipped with the newest on-board digital radio-electronic equipment 
KAZAN, August 16. /TASS/. An upgraded long-range missile-carrying bomer Tupolev 22M3M was rolled out on the premises of the S.P. Gorbunov Aircraft Building Plant in Kazan on Thursday, a TASS correspondent reports from the scene. 
The first experimental Tupolev-22M3M was created under a large-scale program for upgrading strategic and long-range aircraft PAO Tupolev is working on at the moment. In the next phase the first batch of Tupolev-22M3 planes currently in service will be upgraded, Tupolev CEO Alexander Konyukhov said at the ceremony. 
After the presentation the Tupolev-22M3M will enter the stage of ground and flight tests. 
The Defense Ministry will make a decision to upgrade operational planes on the basis of results of joint government certification tests. By and large the upgrade program will ensure the operation of strategic and long-range planes in the long term and effective performance of their tasks, Konyukhov said. 
Upgraded plane 
In the process of profound upgrade the Tupolev-22M3M was equipped with the newest on-board digital radio-electronic equipment made of domestically manufactured components. In particular, the plane boasts new navigation, communication and targeting equipment, new engine and fuel consumption control systems and radio-electronic warfare means, the Tupolev company said. 
The replacement of 80% of radio-electronics has improved the accuracy of navigation and automation of the plane’s control and made its maintenance simpler and easier. The on-board radio-electronic equipment of Tupolev-22M3M and Tupolev-160M are similar and compatible. 
The upgraded plane was also equipped with a new information and control system with digital indicators in the cockpit and the function of intellectual support for the crew, PAO Tupolev said. 
The plane’s potential has been enhanced considerably. Its combat effectiveness and combat radius is far greater. 
Tupolev-22M3M is a multi-role missile-carrying bomber with a variable sweep wing. 
The first upgraded bombers Tupolev-22M3M will begin to be provided for the armed forces as of 2021, the head of the United Aircraft Corporation Yuri Slyusar said. 
This week in photos: Genoa bridge collapse, Trump views drills and NASA goes to the Sun 
The world in pictures in a photo gallery by TASS 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 12 
Ivanka Trump poses with members of the Girls of Steel Robotics initiative, at the Astrobotic Technology facility in Pittsburgh, August 14 
Germany's Gesa-Felicitas Krause is lifted by mascot Berlino as she celebrates after winning the gold medal in the women's 3000-meter steeplechase at the European Athletics Championships in the Olympic stadium in Berlin, August 12 
Fans of the Ecuadorian football club Barcelona S.C gather to await the coffins of the fans whom died in a bus accident, to pay homage to them at the Isidro Romero Carbo Monumental Stadium, in Guayaquil, August 13 
Britain's former Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson offers cups of tea to journalists outside his home near Thame in Oxfordshire, August 12 
A girl kisses the gold plated cross in the church of the Black Madonna, during the feast of Assumption in the village of Letnica, August 15. Thousands of pilgrims gathered in southeastern Kosovo in the small Roman Catholic community where Mother Teresa is believed to have heard her calling to become a nun 
A costumed stand up paddle boarder takes part in the 2018 Fontanka-SUP surfing festival in the Moika and the Fontanka Rivers, the Kryukov and the Griboyedov Canals, Saint Petersburg, August 12 
An alligator named Muja is seen in its enclosure in Belgrade's Zoo, August 14. Muja is officially the oldest American alligator in the world living in captivity. He was brought to Belgrade from Germany in 1937, a year after the opening of the Zoo. Muja survived three bombings of Belgrade, the Second World War and all hardships the Zoo went through 
A Yabusame performance at the Central Moscow Hippodrome, August 11. Yabusame is a type of traditional Japanese archery, when an archer on a running horse shoots three arrows at three wooden targets 
The Parker Solar Probe blasts off from NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Cape Canaveral, August 12 
US President Donald Trump attends a drill by the US Army’s 10th Mountain Division troops, with an attack helicopter and artillery in the background at Fort Drum, New York, August 13 
Truck stands still on the Morandi highway bridge after a section of it collapsed in Genoa, on August 14. A large stretch of the bridge came crashing down on an industrial zone in the Italian city of Genova during a sudden and violent storm, crushing vehicles and buildings below 
Morandi highway bridge collapses in Genoa, Trump views military drills, NASA launches solar probe to study the Sun and other photographs of the week. The world in pictures in a photo gallery by TASS 
Putin has arrived at Austrian foreign minister’s wedding - TV 
Russian President warmly greeted the bride giving her a beautiful bouquet of yellow and white flowers 
Austria’s Foreign Minister Karin Kneissl and Russian President Vladimir Putin 
TASS, August 18. The cortege of Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived in the village of Gamlitz in Austria where a wedding ceremony of Austria’s Foreign Minister Karin Kneissl and businessman Wolfgang Malinger will be held later on Saturday, internet channel OE24.TV reported. 
The Russian President warmly greeted the bride giving her a beautiful bouquet of yellow and white flowers. He also brought along the Kuban Cossack Choir to entertain the guests. Earlier Austrian and German media reported referring to sources in diplomatic circles that the performance of the Cossack choir will be a wedding gift of the Russian President. 
Earlier local media reported that Putin would arrive at the ceremony by helicopter from the airport of Graz, but the president preferred to go to the ceremony by car. 
Other high-ranking officials who already arrived at the ceremony include Prime Minister Sebastian Kurtz, Vice-Chancellor Heinz-Christian Strache, Austrian President Alexander Van der Bellen and Secretary General of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC) Mohammed Barkindo. 
Earlier on Saturday, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov reported on the arrival of the Russian president in Graz. Peskov also said that after the wedding ceremony, Putin will go to negotiations with German Chancellor Angela Merkel. Before the talks the two leaders are expected to make a joint statement for press outlining the main topics of the upcoming meeting. 
Anti-Russian sanctions remain important element of US election campaign - diplomat 
The elections are yet to take place, but the sanctions have already been prepared, Maria Zakharova said 
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova 
MOSCOW, August 22. /TASS/. Anti-Russian sanctions are an important element of the US electoral campaign, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Tuesday. 
Zakharova’s brief comment, posted on her Facebook page, came in response to US Assistant Secretary of State for International Security and Non-Proliferation Christopher Ford’s announcement that Washington was ready to impose new sanctions on Russia for its interference into the November 2018 elections to the US Congress. 
The elections are yet to take place, but the sanctions have already been prepared. Why? Because it is an important factor of the electoral campaign in the United States, Zakharova said. 
Christopher Krebs, undersecretary for the Department of Homeland Security's national protection and programs directorate, earlier told the US Senate that the 2018 midterm elections remain a potential target for Russian cyber and influence operations. 
US special services accuse Russia of interfering into the 2016 US presidential election. US President Donald Trump and officials from his administration have strongly denied any kind of unlawful contacts with Russian officials during the electoral campaign. Moscow has also denied the allegations on many occasions. 
Kremlin believes Bolton’s claim that Russia is ‘stuck’ in Syria is incorrect 
SOCHI, August 22. /TASS/. The Kremlin regards as incorrect US presidential national security adviser John Bolton’s remark Russia is allegedly stuck in Syria, Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov told the media. 
It is not correct for anyone, let alone our counterparts in Washington, to claim that Russia has stuck someplace, he said. Let us not forget that US military personnel is present on Syrian soil, too. This should be born in mind. 
Peskov said Russia plays a very active role in saving Syria from international terrorism, from the Islamic State (terrorist organization outlawed in Russia) and other terrorist groups and in putting Syria on the track of political and diplomatic settlement. 
Also, Russia actively promotes the return of refugees to Syria and the beginning of the country’s postwar reconstruction, he added. 
Earlier, Bolton told Reuters in an interview during his three-day visit to Israel that Russia was stuck in Syria at the moment. 
Russian duo dominates stage category at World Tango Championship in Argentina 
Another Russian couple participating in the championship placed fifth 
BUENOS AIRES, August 23. /TASS/. Russians Dmitry Vasin and Sagdiana Khamzina have taken home first prize in the stage category at the World Tango Tournament in Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
The dancers also received the Audience Choice Award following an online vote. A third of all voters have chosen them. So you can say that this is a definitive victory, the presenter said. 
Another Russian couple participating in the championship - Dmitry Kuznetsov and Olga Nikolaeva - placed fifth. 
Khamzina told a TASS correspondent that the victory came as a surprise to her. It feels like we are dreaming right now. Perhaps we’ll realize it tomorrow, the dancer said. 
We wanted this every year, but, honestly, today I did not expect that we would take first prize, Khamzina added. This is the third World Tango Championship for her. Last year, the duo placed fourth in the stage category. 
Next year, we will take our students. We’ll come as well, but we will not compete, said Vasin, who has taken part in seven tournaments. 
Dmitry Kuznetsov, the dancer who placed fifth in the tournament, congratulated his colleagues on the win. We are very happy for Russia, for Dima [Dmitry] Vasin and Sagdiana. It is well-deserved, because Russia is on a very high level right now in Argentine tango, and Dima really deserves to be the one to write a new page in history. 
Nearly 600 dancers from all over the world have participated in the 2018 World Tango Championship. The annual tournament displays various styles of tango in different categories. On Tuesday, the finale in the salon category took place, where Argentine couple Carla Rossi and Jose Luis Salvo secured a victory. Salon tango is a classic version of the dance, while the stage category is known for more flair and extravagance. 
Russian space agency to set up new Flight Control Center for lunar missions 
The first stage of the Russian lunar program envisages studying the Earth’s natural satellite with the help of automatic missions 
KUBINKA /Moscow Region/. August 23. /TASS/. Russia’s State Space Corporation Roscosmos will set up a separate Flight Control Center for programs to explore the Earth’s natural satellite, Roscosmos Chief Dmitry Rogozin said on Thursday as he visited the display stand of Russian Space Systems at the Army-2018 forum. 
Can this potential [accumulated by Russian Space Systems for developing satellite control systems] be used in forming the Flight Control Center, which we will be creating for the lunar program? Rogozin asked, addressing the company’s Deputy CEO Yevgeny Nesterov. 
Today we are transforming jointly with the chief designer many Glonass [satellite navigation grouping] solutions into those solutions that will be linked with future lunar programs. All this will lay the basis, Nesterov noted. 
The first stage of the Russian lunar program envisages studying the Earth’s natural satellite with the help of automatic missions. Specifically, as Rogozin noted earlier, the program will begin with the launch of the Luna-25 automatic probe in 2021. Later, the probes Luna-26 and Luna 27 are set to fly to the Moon and in 2025 the Luna-28 is expected to deliver a lunar soil sample to Earth. 
After the completion of the automatic missions, Russia earlier planned to build a domestic base closer to one of the Moon’s poles to comprise a whole range of laboratories and to regularly accommodate cosmonauts. Under the Roscosmos new leadership, the base’s status was not discussed yet. 
Russia is also considering participating in NASA’s project to create the Deep Space Gateway inhabited lunar outpost. 
Russia marks 75th anniversary of its watershed victory at the Battle of Kursk 
August 23, 2018, marks 75 years since the end of a landmark operation of World War II, the Battle of the Kursk Salient 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 12 
Soviet Marshall Georgy Zhukov seen outside the city of Kursk, the scene of the WW II biggest tank battle, 1943 
The Battle of Kursk brought together 4 million men and officers on both sides, more than 10,000 tanks and 11,000 warplanes 
Soldiers of the Red Army talking to residents of the village of Prokhorovka, 1943 
The Battle of Prokhorovka was fought on July 12 near Prokhorovka, 1943, 87 kilometres southeast of Kursk in the Soviet Union, 
Soviet soldiers engaging e in local fighting approaching the city of Dmitrov-Orlovsky in the Battle of Kursk 
The Battle of the Kursk Salient marked a turning point in fighting on the Eastern Front 
Wreckage of German military equipment and transport after the Wehrmacht defeat in the Battle of Kursk, 1943 
The Battle of the Kursk Salient ended on August 23, 1943. The battle became one the milestone events of World War II. It brought together 4 million men and officers on both sides, more than 10,000 tanks and 11,000 warplanes. The Battle of the Kursk Salient marked a turning point in fighting on the Eastern Front. TASS remembers the largest tank battle in history. 
Central Bank won’t buy currency in the domestic market until late September 
This decision was made to increase the predictability of the actions of monetary authorities and reduce the volatility of financial markets 
MOSCOW, August 23. /TASS/. The Central Bank will not buy currency on the domestic market from August 23 to the end of September 2018 in order to reduce volatility, the regulator reports. 
The Bank of Russia decided not to purchase foreign currency on the domestic market as part of the implementation of the budget rule mechanism from August 23, 2018 until the end of September 2018, the Central Bank warned. 
This decision was made to increase the predictability of the actions of monetary authorities and reduce the volatility of financial markets. The decision to resume the purchase of foreign currency as part of implementation of the budget rule mechanism will be made taking into account the situation in the financial markets that will be observed during September 2018, the regulator said in a comment. 
The Central Bank noted that it is monitoring the situation on the financial market and has enough tools to prevent a threat to financial stability. 
Belarusian leader hopes new Russian ambassador’s work to produce positive result 
Lukashenko described the Russian ambassador as an experienced person with the understanding of many problems 
MINSK, August 26. /TASS/. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko expects that the work of Russia’s newly appointed ambassador to Minsk, Mikhail Babich, will contribute to further development of bilateral relations. 
In an interview with the Belarus-1 TV channel on Saturday, Lukashenko described the Russian ambassador as a person with certain political weight and an experienced person with the understanding of many problems. 
He said he had asked Russian President Vladimir Putin whether he could recommend Babich during a phone conversation that took place two months ago. According to Lukashenko, he gave his consent after Putin described the ambassador as a person, who would contribute to normalization and intensification of our relations, a person who would work for good relations. 
All this talk about someone being sent to Belarus, someone who is about to take Belarus under his control and manipulate Lukashenko… this is total nonsense, the Belarusian president said. 
Lukashenko added that the decision on Babich’s appointment was made prior to the Russian-Belarusian presidential meeting in Sochi and the issue was not raised during the event. 
We are ready to work with any representative of the Russian Federation, Lukashenko said. If he wants Belarus to remain Russia’s closest ally for long, for centuries, the ambassador should act correspondingly.. 
Multiple mandates being drawn up after meeting between Russian, S. Ossetian presidents 
Vladimir Putin held meetings in Moscow with the presidents of Abkhazia and South Ossetia on the eve of the 10th anniversary of Russia's recognition of the independence of the two republics 
TSKHINVALI, August 26. /TASS/. The meeting of the presidents of Russia and South Ossetia, Vladimir Putin and Anatoly Bibilov on August 24 was of a business nature, following its results, several assignments are being worked out, Presidential aide Vladislav Surkov said on Sunday. 
The meeting between the presidents of Russia and South Ossetia was timed to coincide with the festive date, but it was of a business nature. Following it, instructions are being worked out, decisions will be made that will further improve the quality of life in South Ossetia, he said. 
The Russian President held meetings in Moscow with the presidents of Abkhazia and South Ossetia Raul Khajimba and Anatoly Bibilov on the eve of the 10th anniversary of Russia's recognition of the independence of the two republics. On Sunday, festive events are held in the republics on the occasion. 
Ukraine appeals against WTO decision in railway dispute with Russia 
Russia will not file a counter-appeal to WTO in the dispute 
MOSCOW, August 27. /TASS/. Ukrainian authorities filed an appeal against the decision taken by toe World Trade Organization (WTO) in a dispute with Russia concerning railway equipment. This is reported in a press release posted on the WTO’s website on Monday. 
Ukraine filed an appeal on 27 August concerning the WTO panel report in the case brought by Ukraine in Russia Measures Affecting the Importation of Railway Equipment and Parts thereof (DS499). The panel circulated its report on 30 July 2018, the statement says. 
Each appeal is heard by three members of a permanent seven-member Appellate Body comprising persons of recognized authority and unaffiliated with any government, the WTO notes. The Appellate Body membership broadly represents the geographic range of WTO membership, with each member appointed for a fixed term. Generally, the Appellate Body has up to 3 months to conclude its report, it says. 
Russia will not file a counter-appeal to WTO in the dispute and will comment on the Ukrainian appeal within the procedural framework, press service of the Russian Ministry of Economic Development told TASS. 
Russia will give comments on the Ukraine’s appeal in accordance with the procedure. We will not present our appeal, the ministry said. 
Ukraine filed a claim to WTO against Russia in respect of restrictions on supplies of Ukrainian railcars and turnouts in October 2015. According to the report published by the WTO panel at the turn of July 2018, Ukraine failed to prove facts of import prevention and alleged violations of WTO provisions by Russia. 
Japan says scrambled fighter jets to escort Russian aircraft near its borders 
Two Tupolev-142 antisubmarine turboprops that crossed the Sea of Japan were skirting the Japanese archipelago in the southwest 
TOKYO, September 2. /TASS/. Japan’s Self-Defense Forces scrambled their fighter jets on Saturday to escort the aircraft of the Russian Aerospace Force that had been noticed near the Japanese border, the Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee of the forces said. 
Two Tupolev-142 antisubmarine turboprops that crossed the Sea of Japan were skirting the Japanese archipelago in the southwest. At the same time, a Russian Sukhoi-24 bomber was cruising over the Sea of Japan. 
The Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee said the aircraft had not entered Japan’s airspace. 
From April 2017 through March 2018, or in the fiscal year 2017, the Japanese fighters made 390 missions to escort the Russian warplanes, making 89 more missions than in the previous fiscal year. 
Simultaneously, the number of sorties to intercept Chinese jets reduced considerably over the same time - to 500 from 851. 
The Joint Chiefs of Staff Committee says Russia sends mostly reconnaissance planes to do missions near Japanese borders. It claims their routes most typically stretch over the Sea of Japan, near Hokkaido and along the northwestern coast of Honshu. 
Russia warns Google against election meddling, stirring up protests 
News started flowing on the Internet earlier that unauthorized protests against the pension reform were going to take place on the election day 
MOSCOW, September 4. /TASS/. Russia’s Central Election Commission (CEC) has sent a letter to Google, reminding that spreading calls for election-day protests on the day prior to elections and on the election day was an offence, CEC member Alexander Klyukin confirmed at a meeting of the Federation Council (the upper house of parliament) Temporary Commission for Protection of State Sovereignty and Prevention of Interference in Russia's Internal Affairs on Tuesday. 
The CEC has sent a letter to Google Inc CEO Larry Page, clarifying some of the provisions of the Federal Law number 67, which refers to the fundamental guarantees of electoral rights. The matter is that Mr Navlny [opposition blogger] is about to purchase some advertising tools from Google to post information on YouTube about plans to carry out political activities on the election day, September 9, Klyukin said. 
News started flowing on the Internet earlier that Navalny’s supporters were going to organize unauthorized protests against the pension reform on the election day. 
We have informed Google that such activities held during the election campaign will lead to numerous violations of election laws since it is prohibited to campaign on the day prior to elections, the CEC member added. 
The CEC has also drawn Google’s attention to the fact that foreign companies’ interference in the election campaign in our country - no matter what form it takes - will be considered as a law violation and election meddling, Klyukin noted, adding that no response had been received from Google so far. 
CEC’s position 
According to the Central Election Commission’s press service, the CEC has been sending letters to various agencies and organizations ahead of the election day, reminding them of the need to abide by election laws. It is done every year as a preventive measure. 
As for the letter to Google, it was no more than a clarification on information activities. Sending such clarification letters is part of the CEC’s everyday work, the press service said. 
The 2018 Unified Election Day is planned for September 9, when gubernatorial elections will be held in 22 regions, while the governors of four regions will be elected by regional lawmakers. Regional parliamentary elections are scheduled to take place in 16 regions and additional State Duma elections will be held in six single-mandate constituencies. Numerous municipal elections will also take place. 
GAC Motor's Wetland Ambassadors Protect Water and Wildlife in Hoh Xil 
Company is committed to pursuing green manufacturing strategy 
XINING, China, Sept. 5, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- GAC Motor, China's leading automobile manufacturer, has organized a second trip to Sanjiangyuan National Nature Reserve (SNNR) as part of its ongoing Wetland Ambassador Program (the Program). A team of 25 wetland ambassadors reached deep into the Hoh Xil region to conduct a biodiversity survey of plateau species and continued to help the ecological protection construction of Sanjiangyuan National Park. 
GAC Motor has been providing supplies and support to the SNNR since the Program was launched in 2017. In July, the first team of ambassadors delivered 20 GS8 SUVs to aid SNNR's daily operations. On this latest visit, the ambassadors donated supplies to the Sonam Dargye protection station in Hoh Xil. This is the fifth trip to SNNR since this program was launched. 
On the morning of August 30th, volunteers came to the Qinghai Hoh Xil National Nature Reserve Administration for study and exchange. Later, they visited the Qinghai Salt Lake Museum to gain an in-depth understanding of the ecological status of the Hoh Xil Reserve and the characteristics of the reserve. Various forms of ecological protection actions such as on-the-spot exploration, delivery of materials, observation of Tibetan antelope, and water intake at the source have been launched according to the characters of nature reserve. On August 31, the GAC Motor's Wetland Ambassadors arrived at the Sonam Dargye protection station and donated mountain patrol equipment including tents, patrol uniforms, winches and other patrol equipment to help them better work and improve work efficiency. 
As the general manager of GAC Motor Yu Jun said, as a Chinese automobile brand with a high sense of national pride and mission, GAC Motor actively responded and supported the construction of Sanjiangyuan National Park to make a great effort to build a national ecological security barrier. By organizing this event, GAC Motor led volunteers to go to Hoh Xil, where they realized the local fragile ecological environment and precious natural resources, which inspired the volunteers to have a stronger sense of mission and responsibility. 
GAC Motor's green strategy is also reflected in every aspect of the company's day-to-day operation. GAC Motor applies green and sustainable technologies in all links of production. GAC Motor has built a world-class ecological factory and vehicle manufacturing system featuring green, energy-saving and environmental protection, and successfully built a typical model of all-around and balanced development of Chinese brands. By adopting environmentally-friendly materials, GAC Motor eliminates harmful substances and dust in factory emissions to reduce atmospheric pollutions. In order to reduce the impact of noise on the environment and human body, the company uses the fully closed noise reduction and dust prevention production line, becoming the first Chinese brand to win the C-ECAP China eco-car evaluation gold medal. 
Being a socially responsible automaker, GAC Motor is committed to undertake social responsibilities and participate in social welfare projects to create an enjoyable life of mobility for customers. 
About GAC Motor 
Founded in 2008, Guangzhou Automobile Group Motor CO., LTD (GAC Motor) is a subsidiary of GAC Group which ranks 238th among Fortune Global 500 companies. The company develops and manufactures premium quality vehicles, engines, components and auto accessories. GAC Motor has now ranked first among all Chinese brands for five consecutive years in J.D. Power Asia Pacific's China Initial Quality Study SM (IQS), demonstrating the company's quality-centric strategy from innovative research and development (R&D), manufacturing to supply chain and sales & services. 
Names of suspects in Salisbury, Amesbury cases say nothing — Russian Foreign Ministry 
The investigation of such serious crimes, like those Britain has mentioned so many times needs painstaking work, scrupulous analysis of all facts and tight interaction, the ministry's spokeswoman said 
MOSCOW, September 5. /TASS/. The names of suspects British officials mentioned in connection with the Salisbury and Amesbury incidents say nothing to Russia, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova told the media on Wednesday. 
The media have published statements by British officials concerning suspects in the Salisbury and Amesbury incidents. Some links with Russia have been made. The names and photographs published in the media say nothing to us, Zakharova said. Once again we are calling upon the British side to drop public charges and information manipulations and to start practical interaction between law enforcement agencies. London has numerous requests from the Russian side. 
The investigation of such serious crimes, like those Britain has mentioned so many times needs painstaking work, scrupulous analysis of all facts and tight interaction, Zakharova said. 
Earlier, the Crown Prosecution Service said it was ready to charge two Russian citizens - Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov - with attempted murder of Sergei Skripal and Yulia Skripal. Scotland Yard has published their photographs. British police officials said, though, the suspects’ names were most likely fictitious. 
Salisbury and Amesbury incidents 
If the British version of the affair is to be believed, the Skripals on March 4 were affected in Salisbury by a nerve gas from the Novichok family. The British government claimed that Russia was highly likely involved in the incident. Moscow has dismissed all speculations on that score all along, saying that programs for making such substances had never existed in either the Soviet Union or Russia. Britain’s military chemical laboratory at Porton Down has been unable to establish the origin of the substance that poisoned the Skripals. 
British citizen Dawn Sturgess and her partner Charlie Rawley, suffering from heroin addiction, were taken to hospital in Amesbury on June 30 in critical condition. Scotland Yard’s official in charge of the investigation speculated that both had been poisoned by Novichok, too. On July 8, it was announced that Sturgess had died in hospital. Rawley was discharged from hospital on July 20 only to be hospitalized again when he started complaining about vision problems. 
Defense Ministry briefs foreign military attaches on Vostok-2018 drills 
It has been reported earlier that Vladimir Putin will be present at the military exercise 
MOSCOW, September 6. /TASS/. Russia’s Deputy Defense Minister, Colonel-General Alexander Fomin, has briefed foreign military attaches on the international aspects of the forthcoming military exercise Vostok-2018. 
Although the exercise is to be held several thousand kilometers away from the western borders of Russia, some Western mass media have been speculating that this Russian exercise is aggressive and aimed against NATO and the EU, he said. 
Fomin drew the foreign attaches’ attention to the fact that the previous and forthcoming exercises lacked the slightest traces that might point to their anti-NATO bias or aggressiveness. 
In the exercise the Russian forces playing the role of an opponent never use NATO uniform or weapons or selected English-speaking personnel, contrary to NATO’s frequent practice of using Russian speakers wearing Soviet or Russian uniforms and armed with Russian weapons and equipment to impersonate a likely enemy, Fomin said. 
Aware of how sensitive this aspect is and being open-hearted as we are, we will stick to our customary mode of action further on, he said. 
Obligations to other countries 
Fomin recalled that Russia had agreements with a number countries, such as South Korea, North Korea, China, Japan and the United States, on the prevention of incidents on the high seas and over them, and also agreements on the prevention of dangerous military activities. 
In accordance with these obligations the personnel of Russia’s ground, naval and air forces involved in the Vostok-2018 exercise has been briefed in detail on the strict observance of security measures and the prevention of dangerous incidents during military activity, he said. 
For ensuring the safety of shipping and international flights certain areas to be used for the exercise have been closed to ships and aircraft. The Defense Ministry has been taking all measures to enforce compliance with Russia’s international liabilities concerning military activity and the safety of shipping and air traffic, Fomin concluded. 
Russia’s Kontinental Hockey League raked in over $50 mln over past season 
MOSCOW, September 7. /TASS/. The Russia-based Kontinental Hockey League (KHL) chalked up 3.5 billion rubles (over $50.3 million) in revenue for the 2017/2018 season, KHL President Dmitry Chernyshenko told journalists on Friday. 
The Board of Directors approved the distribution of a record-high sum of 400 million rubles among the clubs, Chernyshenko said. We are very pleased to announce that our revenues are on the rise. 
The total revenue from the past season hit 3.5 billion rubles, the KHL president continued. Our sponsorship income experienced a 20-percent increase, while the revenues from the sales of broadcasting rights jumped 15% 
The KHL president also said that the league would also shell out about 340 million rubles (about $4.9 million) to the Russian Ice Hockey Federation (RIHF). 
The provisional budget of the KHL stipulated the sum of about 340 million rubles to be paid to the RIHF, Chernyshenko said. 
The Russia-based Kontinental Hockey League is also set to expand the number of its members, Chernyshenko continued, as several foreign ice hockey clubs, including from France, intended to join the league starting next season. 
I have said on numerous occasions that we are in negotiations with several clubs and we will come up with statements as soon as we reach the stage of analyzing the applications and financial documents, Chernyshenko said. 
As of now, we are only studying documents, including from French ice hockey clubs, possibly from a club in Paris with its Bercy Arena and perhaps a club from Marseilles as well, the KHL president added. 
The Kontinental Hockey League was founded in Russia in 2008 and currently lists 25 professional ice hockey clubs from Russia, Belarus, China, Finland, Kazakhstan, Latvia and Slovakia. 
International experts deem the KHL as the premier ice hockey league in Europe and Asia ranking it as the world’s second most important right on the heels of the US-based NHL (National Hockey League). 
North Korean people achieve successes despite sanctions - Matviyenko 
The Russian senate speaker pointed out that the North Korean capital had changed a lot since her previous visit in 2005 
Russian Federation Council Chairperson Valentina Matviyenko 
PYONGYANG, September 8. /TASS/. The North Korean people have been achieving successes despite the sanctions pressure, which deserves respect, Russian Federation Council (the upper house of parliament) Chairperson Valentina Matviyenko said at a meeting with President of the Presidium of the North Korean Supreme People's Assembly Kim Yong-nam in Pyongyang. 
Your country’s people, who have been working to ensure the country’s development despite all sanctions, deserve great respect, Matviyenko said. 
The Russian senate speaker pointed out that the North Korean capital had changed a lot since her previous visit in 2005. According to her, new districts and streets have been built and the city infrastructure has improved. 
Matviyenko told reporters earlier that she would convey Russian President Vladimir Putin’s letter to North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. 
Visit to North Korea 
On Saturday, the Russian senate speaker held a meeting with North Korean Supreme People's Assembly Chairman Choe Thae-bok and thanked the country’s authorities for inviting her to celebrations marking the 70th anniversary of North Korea’s founding. 
I would like to congratulate you and the people of North Korea on this anniversary and thank you for the warm welcome, Matviyenko said. 
Earlier in the day, the Federation Council delegation led by Matviyenko laid flowers at the monuments of Kim Il-sung and Kim Jong-il, as well as at a monument to Soviet soldiers. 
The Russian delegation includes a number of senators, namely Federation Council Foreign Affairs Committee Chairmanb Konstantin Kosachev and Defense and Security Committee chief Viktor Bondarev. 
The delegation arrived in Pyongyang on Friday night and will conclude the visit on September 10. 
Kremlin has no information about alleged suspects in Skripal case, spokesman says 
According to Dmitry Peskov, the matter is under the purview of the relevant agencies 
VLADIVOSTOK, September 10. /TASS/. The Kremlin has no information about the two men Great Britain suspects of poisoning former Russian military intelligence (GRU) Colonel Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia, Russian Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. 
We don’t have such information, he said. According to Peskov, the matter is under the purview of the relevant agencies. If there is some information on this, then the relevant agencies must have it, he pointed out. 
The Kremlin spokesman added that if Great Britain cooperated [with Russia] in accordance with the legal assistance agreement, it would facilitate the investigation into the Skripal case. But unfortunately, Great Britain is reluctant to cooperate, he said. 
Skripal saga 
According to London, Sergei Skripal, 66, who had been convicted in Russia of spying for Great Britain and later swapped for Russian intelligence officers, and his daughter Yulia, 33, suffered the effects of an alleged nerve agent in the British city of Salisbury on March 4. Claiming that the substance used in the attack had been a Novichok-class nerve agent developed in the Soviet Union, London rushed to accuse Russia of being involved in the incident. Moscow rejected all of the United Kingdom’s accusations, saying that neither the Soviet Union nor Russia ever had any program aimed at developing such a substance. 
Chief Executive of the Defense Science and Technology Laboratory (DSTL) at Porton Down Gary Aitkenhead said later that British experts had been unable to identify the origin of the nerve agent used in the attack on the Skripals. 
On September 5, British Prime Minister Theresa May informed the country’s parliament about the conclusions that investigators looking into the Salisbury incident had come to, saying that two Russians, believed to be GRU agents, were suspected of conspiracy to murder the Skripals. According to May, the assassination attempt was approved at a senior level of the Russian state. The Metropolitan Police published the suspects’ photos, saying their names were Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov. 
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that those names meant nothing to Russia. 
Moscow ready to develop relations with Tokyo — Putin 
VLADIVOSTOK, September 10. /TASS/. Moscow is ready to develop relations with Tokyo on the basis of good neighborly relations and respect to each other’s interests, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Monday. 
Japan is a major, reliable partner for Russia. We are set to develop Russian-Japanese cooperation on the basis of the principles of good neighborly relations, mutual respect and reckoning with each other’s interests, he said after talks with Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe. 
The Russian leader noted that his contacts with the Japanese prime minister have regular character, with Shinzo Abe coming to Russia for the second time this year. On his visits to our country, the Japanese prime minister is always accompanied by a representative delegation of officials and businessmen. We saw it in May when about 150 leading Japanese businessmen took part in the St. Petersburg Economic Forum along with the prime minister. And now, in Vladivostok, he is accompanied by members of the Japanese government, officials from prefectures, several hundreds of executives from Japan’s biggest companies, Putin noted. 
He thanked Japanese partners for their high interest to the development of mutually beneficial cooperation for their commitment to expand comprehensive contacts in the economy, politics and the humanitarian sphere. 
According to the Russian president, Moscow and Tokyo maintain intense political dialogue and today’s talks were held in a businesslike and constructive atmosphere. 
We discussed in detail key aspects of bilateral relations, with major attention being focused on the expansion of trade-and-economic and investment cooperation, Putin said, adding that bilateral trade grew by 14% in 2017 and by another 20% - in January-June 2018. 
Japanese corporations have been actively investing to various sectors of our industry and agriculture. Cumulative investment to the Russian economy reached two billion US dollars. About one hundred mutually beneficial joint initiatives are being successfully implemented as part of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe’s eight-point cooperation plan and Russia’s list of priority investment projects, he noted. 
The Korean Peninsula issue 
Moscow and Tokyo plan to closely cooperate in resolving the Korean Peninsula issue, Putin said. 
Mr. Abe and I exchanged views on pressing global issues, including ways to ensure security and stability in the entire Asia-Pacific region, Putin said. We paid particular attention to the situation on the Korean Peninsula. We plan to maintain close contacts to facilitate inter-Korean dialogue and resolve all the issues in the political and diplomatic field, Putin said. 
The Russian leader thanked the Japanese prime minister for business-like and substantive talks. Putin pointed out that the two leaders were planned to attend a number of events during the Eastern Economic Forum (EEF), particularly addressing the forum’s plenary meeting on September 12. 
I am sure that the Japanese Prime Minister’s eventful visit to Russia will give a new impetus to Russian-Japanese relations, which will continue to progress in the spirit of partnership and cooperation, Putin concluded. 
Hainan Abounds with Opportunities, with 26 Foreign Investment Projects Secured 
BEIJING, Sept. 11, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- On September 6, Hainan Province held Foreign Investment Promotion Event and Signing Ceremony in Beijing, attracting 36 foreign investors. Hainan secured 26 foreign investment projects, funded by PWC, Deloitte, Harrow School of the UK, Temasek, and other famous enterprises. These projects involved tourism, culture, environmental protection, agriculture, medical care, convention and exhibition, logistics, and other fields. 
At the event, foreign businessmen generally believed that Hainan offers enormous opportunities. Many attendees said that their enterprises would settle down in Hainan. 
Ben Duncan, President of CBRE's North Asia and CEO of Greater China, said, We believe that Hainan enjoys strong foundation and unique advantages, especially in tourism resources, and convention and exhibition resources. We also believe that in the future, Hainan will offer many construction opportunities as a free trade port. 
Julie Laulusa, Executive Partner of Mazars (Mainland of China) believed, The rise of Hainan in China, or its growing into a world-class free trade zone, is just a matter of time. That's why we choose to enter Hainan now. 
In April this year, China declared that it will support the whole Hainan Island to build a pilot free trade zone, and to explore its way in the construction of a free trade port with Chinese characteristics steadily. Overnight, Hainan became a much-focused land among investors. Since May, Hainan has issued series of policies and measures to promote investment, such as attracting investment in 100 days, further improving business environment, and others. As such, the island has gathered pace in investment promotion. 
Lately, Hainan Province unveiled the 15 Measures to Enhance Governmental Executive Ability, aiming to establish a government working mechanism in line with the requirements of deepening reform and opening-up in all respects in Hainan. In order to implement a high-level investment liberalization and facilitation policy, and to carry out a system of pre-establishment national treatment and negative list management on foreign investment, Hainan Development and Reform Commission recently compiled and carried out the Guideline for Foreign Investment Projects Approval and Filing Services, which delegated the power of foreign investment projects approval and filing to municipalities and counties. The series of investment promotion measures show the determination of Hainan in pushing for reform and opening up, and also reassure foreign investors. 
London grooming UK public for ‘aggressive’ anti-Russian scaremongering — embassy 
The embassy noted that a series of official statements was made lately to the effect that the UK should use its massive retaliatory capabilities to counter Russia’s aggression 
LONDON, September 11. /TASS/. Recent statements by UK officials, including on the country’s readiness to retaliate against Russia, create an impression that the British public is being prepared for aggressive measures against Russia, the Russian embassy in London said on Tuesday. 
Impression grows that the British public is being prepared for aggressive actions against Russia disguised as defensive measures, with eventual consequences impossible to predict, 
Russian diplomats said in a statement. We urge the British authorities to abandon such hostile rhetoric, and be guided by international law and common sense. 
The embassy noted that a series of official statements was made lately to the effect that the UK should use its massive retaliatory capabilities to counter Russia’s aggression. 
Such statements are reckless, provocative and unfounded, the statement reads. 
It is worth recalling that Russia has made several proposals to the United Kingdom on different levels to establish cooperation both over the Salisbury incident and on cyberthreats, the embassy said. Moreover, while some time ago the idea of cyber attacks against Russia was suggested by MPs and journalists, now it is being voiced by ministers and high-ranking officials. 
Government Communications Headquarters (GCHQ) head Jeremy Fleming said last week that the British authorities and their allies were prepared to counter the threat allegedly posed by Russia. In this context he mentioned a plan to deploy the full range of tools, including Britain’s offensive cyber capability against Russia. 
Russian-UK relations have become increasingly chilly following the Salisbury incident earlier this year. According to London, Sergei Skripal, 66, who had been convicted in Russia of spying for Great Britain and later swapped for Russian intelligence officers, and his daughter Yulia, 33, suffered the effects of an alleged nerve agent in the British city of Salisbury on March 4. Claiming that the substance used in the attack had been a Novichok-class nerve agent developed in the Soviet Union, London rushed to accuse Russia of being involved in the incident. Moscow rejected all of the United Kingdom’s accusations, saying that neither the Soviet Union nor Russia ever had any program aimed at developing such a substance. 
On September 5, British Prime Minister Theresa May informed the country’s parliament about the conclusions that investigators looking into the Salisbury incident had come to, saying that two Russians, believed to be GRU agents, were suspected of conspiracy to murder the Skripals. The Metropolitan Police published the suspects’ photos, saying their names were Alexander Petrov and Ruslan Boshirov. Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that those names meant nothing to Russia. 
Gorbachev pens new book urging West to end attempts to isolate Russia 
Gorbachev also pointed out that he had advocated Russia’s unconditional right to an independent and active foreign policy, and defended the country from unfounded criticism 
MOSCOW, September 13. /TASS/. Former General Secretary of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union and ex-Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev believes that Russia has a crucial role to play on the international stage so the West should abandon efforts to isolate the country, as he writes in a book titled, In a Changing World, which was launched for journalists on Thursday. 
Russia will have one of the most important roles in the changing world and I am sure that its role will be positive. Russia can neither be punished nor isolated, so it’s time the West abandons such efforts, the former Soviet leader wrote. 
Gorbachev also pointed out that he had advocated Russia’s unconditional right to an independent and active foreign policy, and defended the country from unfounded criticism and allegations about imperial ambitions and aggressive plans. He also regrets the West’s persistent habit of blaming everything on Russia instead of impartially assessing emerging issues. 
Some in the Western media are obsessed with anti-Russian stereotypes. Criticism of our real issues is becoming indiscriminate, Gorbachev said, adding that he would use every opportunity to counter this trend.. 
Moscow has no data on alleged defector in Italy in wake of Skripal case 
We can only say this kind of exposure of an agent stands in a clear contrast with the typical practice of British secret services, Maria Zakharova said 
Maria Zakharova, the Russian Foreign Ministry’s official spokesperson 
MOSCOW, September 13. /TASS/. Moscow does not have any data on whatever defector from the Russian Embassy in Rome in the wake of the so-called Skripal case, Maria Zakharova, the Russian Foreign Ministry’s official spokesperson said in a written response to a question from the media on Thursday. 
The Russian side does not have whatever information on the mysterious individual, as no one has defected from our Embassy in Rome, she said. 
We can only say this kind of exposure of an agent stands in a clear contrast with the typical practice of British secret services, Zakharova said. Disinformation spread by Britons in connection with the Skripal case has long gone sky-high and the low standards of the circulated fakes cannot withstand any criticism. 
She called attention to a recent continuation of the ‘spy scandal’ by the UK media, which brought to limelight a new episode, wherein the British spy services received the true names of the Skripals’ poisoners from a former fugitive diplomat at the Russian Embassy in Rome, whom the Britons had ostensibly recruited under the nick Apollo. 
Tool for Measuring Development Published in Journal 
Study recommends qualitative and quantitative measurements that can lead to more successfully coordinated cancer care, finds need for better organization around the integration of care 
FORT WASHINGTON, Pennsylvania, Sept. 17, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- New research in the September 2018 issue of JNCCN — Journal of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network explores a new approach for benchmarking cancer centers, based on how successfully their organizational structures allow them to implement Integrated Practice Units (IPU). These IPUs are defined as highly coordinated, multidisciplinary care (including rehabilitation and supportive services) that can provide better value to patients by increasing efficiency and lowering costs. However, upon applying this 13-step measurement method to seven cancer centers across Europe, the researchers found there was no clear, consistent strategy for developing and implementing IPUs. 
We found a wide range of IPU-development stages and characteristics for cancer pathways, said Anke Wind, PhD, Department of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, Netherlands Cancer Institute. The sobering finding is that these are not very advanced in their IPU maturity. 
This study is part of the international benchmarking project known as BENCH-CAN. The new benchmarking tool is comprised of 51 qualitative indicators and 193 quantitative indicators, based on existing literature and expert consensus. That data was then collected for the year 2012 from the seven pilot cancer centers, all of which are current members of the Organisation of European Cancer Institutes (OECI). The analysis focused mainly on breast cancer pathways, in order to ensure all of the centers involved were able to provide sufficient data for comparison. The research process included an in-person visit to each center to verify data and better understand context. 
The researchers concluded with the recommendation that cancer centers explore strategic organizational changes to allow for adequate staffing to both measure and improve their use of IPUs as part of their cancer pathways. 
A more systematic deployment of IPU traits is advised when implementing value-based health care in oncology, said Dr. Wind. The researchers will be following up with a project on Achieving Best possible Cancer treatment outcomes in treatment pathways through benchmarking, a.k.a. the ABC-Benchmarking project, intended to further validate and develop the benchmark format in order to link outcomes data to benchmark characteristics. 
This work is an important step toward more consistent provision of guideline-directed care during and after cancer treatment, said Kathryn Ruddy, MD, MPH, Director of Cancer Survivorship for the Department of Oncology, Mayo Clinic Cancer Center, and a Member of the NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®) Panel for Survivorship. 
About JNCCN—Journal of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network More than 25,000 oncologists and other cancer care professionals across the United States read JNCCN—Journal of the National Comprehensive Cancer Network. This peer-reviewed, indexed medical journal provides the latest information about best clinical practices, health services research, and translational medicine. JNCCN features updates on the NCCN Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology (NCCN Guidelines®), review articles elaborating on guidelines recommendations, health services research, and case reports highlighting molecular insights in patient care. JNCCN is published by Harborside Press. Visit JNCCN.org. Follow JNCCN on Twitter @JNCCN. 
About the National Comprehensive Cancer Network The National Comprehensive Cancer Network® (NCCN®), a not-for-profit alliance of 27 leading cancer centers devoted to patient care, research, and education, is dedicated to improving the quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of cancer care so that patients can live better lives. As the arbiter of high-quality cancer care, NCCN promotes the importance of continuous quality improvement and recognizes the significance of creating clinical practice guidelines appropriate for use by patients, clinicians, and other health care decision-makers. 
Russian tennis chief confirms reports about Maria Sharapova’s decision to wrap up season 
Two weeks ago, Sharapova was knocked out from the 2018 US Open Grand Slam Tournament after a straight sets defeat inflicted by Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro 
MOSCOW, September 17. /TASS, Andrey Kartashov/. President of the Russian Tennis Federation (RTF) Shamil Tarpishchev confirmed to TASS on Monday earlier media reports that Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova decided to close the season and pull out of earlier scheduled tournaments. 
New York Times journalist Ben Rothenberg announced on his Twitter account earlier in the day that Sharapova is shutting down her 2018 season, withdrawing from Beijing, Tianjin, and Moscow to rest and recuperate. The journalist added that Sharapova planned to return at WTA Shenzhen to start the 2019 season, per her team. 
Asked by a TASS correspondent whether this information was true, RTF President Tarpishchev said it was a 50 by 50 situation regarding Sharapova, but after consulting with doctors she decided to close the season ahead of time and to concentrate on her health. 
She made the decision to start the next season in her optimal physical condition, Tarpishchev said. However, it is still possible that she would simply come to Moscow [for the Kremlin Cup] as she had planned to do, but in the capacity of an honorary guest. 
Two weeks ago, Sharapova was knocked out from the 2018 US Open Grand Slam Tournament after a straight sets defeat inflicted by Spain’s Carla Suarez Navarro (6-4, 6-3). Her next scheduled tournament was expected to be the 2018 VTB Kremlin Cup in the Russian capital of Moscow on October 11-21. 
Sharapova is Russia’s most decorated tennis player having won a total of five Grand Slam tournaments, namely the Australian Open in 2008, the French Open in 2012 and 2014, Wimbledon in 2004 and the US Open in 2006. She also clinched the silver in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London and was the 2008 Federations Cup champion. 
After the 15-month long suspension, imposed in 2016 for violating anti-doping regulations, Sharapova made her comeback to tennis in April 2017. 
Last October, Sharapova won the 2017 WTA Tianjin Open in China and it was her first tournament to win since May 2015. She is currently ranked 24th in the WTA Rankings List. 
Putin stresses Israeli air forces’ operations violate Syria’s sovereignty 
The Israeli prime minister offered his condolences over the death of 15 Russian servicemen who were onboard the downed Ilyushin Il-20 plane 
MOSCOW, September 18. /TASS/. The Israeli air forces’ operations in Syria are conducted in violation of that country’s sovereignty, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Tuesday during a telephone conversation with Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu following Monday’s incident with a Russian plane that was downed in Syria, killing 15 servicemen. 
Putin pointed to the fact that such operation of the Israeli air forces are conducted in violation of Syria’s sovereignty. In this case, the Russian-Israeli agreements on incident prevention were not observed either. As a result, the Russian plane came under fire from Syrian air defense systems, the Kremlin press service said. 
According to the Kremlin press service, the Russian president called on the Israeli side to avoid such situations. 
The Israeli prime minister offered his condolences over the death of 15 Russian servicemen who were onboard the downed Ilyushin Il-20 plane. 
Benjamin Netanyahu promised to provide detailed information on the activities of the Israeli air forces over the Syrian territory on that day for the purposes of meticulous investigation of the tragedy, and the commander of the Israeli air force will bring it to Moscow shortly, the report said. 
The conversation was initiated by the Israeli side. 
The Russian defense ministry said earlier that a Russian Ilyushin Il-20 plane that was flying back to the airbase at Syria’s Hmeymim crashed over the Mediterranean Sea late on Monday. According to the ministry, four Israeli F-16 fighter jet were delivering airstrikes on Syrian targets in the Latakia governorate at the moment. The ministry said the Russian Il-20 was shot down by Syria’s air defense over the Mediterranean Sea because Israel’s F-16 fighter jets used it as a cover, since the Israeli command centers and the F-16s’ pilots could not but see the Russian plane, which was approaching the runway from an altitude of five kilometers. Fifteen Russian crew members died. 
Tyumen university students win thermosphysics conference 
Post-graduate students of University of Tyumen have become winners of the all-Russia scientific conference 
MOSCOW, September 19. /TASS/. Post-graduate students of University of Tyumen have become winners of the all-Russia scientific conference on thermosphysics and physical hydrodynamics in Yalta, the university’s press service said. 
“The university’s students, Tair Yesenbayev and Mohammed al-Musaiker have attended the third all-Russia scientific conference on thermosphysics and physical hydrodynamics in Yalta (Crimea) and presented the results of their research on drop evaporation on thin surfaces and regulation of processes of self-organization of micro and nano particles in colloid solutions,” the press service said. 
The report of Mohammed al-Musaiker, a post-graduate student from Yemen, was named the best report in the section “Hydrodynamics and heat and mass exchange in multiphase systems.” 
According to the young scientist’s report, the regulation of processes of self-organization of micro and nano particles in colloid solutions and evaporating drops is vital for modern fundamental and applies sciences. 
For instance, this can be used in the creation of optoelectronic devices, transparent and flexible conductors, etc. 
Mohammed al-Musaiker carries out his research work at the university’s X-BIO laboratory of photonics and microfluidics. The all-Russia scientific conference on thermosphysics and physical hydrodynamics was held in Yalta on September 10-16. It focused on fundamental problems of modern on thermosphysics and hydrodynamics and is a successor of conferences of young scientists held in the Soviet Union since the 1970s. 
The event is organized by the Novosibirsk-based institute of thermosphysics. 
US adds 33 Russian officials linked to defense manufacturing to blacklist 
WASHINGTON, September 20. /TASS/. US has added another 33 Russian officials to its blacklist of individuals who fall under the anti-Russian sanctions, a high-rank spokesman for the Administration told reporters during a telephone briefing. 
He said the officials were linked to the Russian defense manufacturing sector. 
The spokesman said US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo had blacklisted the officials, who were acting in the interests of defense industries and intelligence services, under the terms of the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act [CAATSA]. 
Now the so-called control list has 72 entries. 
CAATSA’s clause 231, which stipulates the rules for forming the list, says any person taking part conscientiously in considerable transactions with any of the blacklisted individuals or organizations falls under US-imposed sanctions automatically. 
In practice, this provision means CAATSA presupposed the application of US restrictive measures to third countries cooperating with Russia’s defense manufacturing sector and intelligence organizations. 
Washington is not introducing any new sanctions against the blacklisted individuals or organizations, but many of them were targets of previous US restrictions. 
The list of organizations linked to defense and related industries includes the private military company PMC Wagner, the Oboronlogistika group of companies that provides the services in defense and civilian logistics and transportation, and the Yuri Gagarin Aircraft Factory in Komsomolsk-on-Amur in the Far East of Russia. 
Washington has blacklisted the St Petersburg-based Internet Research Agency, Concord Management & Consulting and Concord Catering companies as the entities is believes to be connected with Russia’s intelligence community. 
The newly blacklisted individuals are Yevengy Prigozhin, Mikhail Bystrov, Mikhail Burchik, Alexandra Krylova, Anna Bogachova, Sergei Polozov, Maria Bovda, Robert Bovda, Jeikhun Aslanov, Vadim Podkopayev, Gleb Vasilchenko, Irina Koverzina, Vladimir Venkov, Viktor Netyshko, Boris Antonov, Dmitry Badin, Ivan Yermakov, Alexei Lukashev, Sergei Morgachov, Anatoly Kovalyov, Nikolai Kozachek, Pavel Yershov, Atryom Malyshev, Alexander Osadchuk, Alexei Potyomkin, Igor Korobov, and Sergei Gizunov. 
President Trump signed CAATSA into law in the summer of 2017. It spelt out more supplementary restrictions against Russia, Iran and the DPRK. 
This week in photos: Putin sets bedrock, Chilean cops cuddle pups, Trump hands out meals 
The world in pictures in a photo gallery by TASS 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 14 
Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia, Deputy Prime Minister Timur Ivanov, Russian President Vladimir Putin, along with Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu look at a mockup of the Russian Armed Forces' main cathedral in Patriot Park, Moscow, September 19. President Putin took part in the blessing of the foundation stone of Russian Army’s main cathedral 
Chilean police officers march with future police dog puppies during the annual military parade at O'Higgins park in Santiago, Chile, September 19 
South Korean President Moon Jae-in collects water from heaven lake at the bottom of Mount Paektu during a visit with his North Korean counterpart Kim Jong-un in Mount Paektu, September 20 
A man swims in muddy water as he competes in the Race of Heroes obstacle course race superfinal at the Sorochany ski resort near Moscow, September 15 
A huge cobweb covers the vegetation along the coast of Aitoliko, about 250 km west of Athens, September 18. Experts say it is a seasonal phenomenon, caused by Tetragnatha spiders 
An anti-government protester carries an iguana on her head, as she takes part in a protest against Nicaraguan President Daniel Ortega's government in Managua, September 15 
Models walk the runway at the RIXO London presentation during London Fashion Week, September 18 
A historical re-enactment of a World War II battle shows the September 1939 attack by Nazi German tanks on Polish troops near the village of Lomianki , close to Warsaw, September 16 
An ultra-Orthodox Jewish man whips another man with a leather strap as a symbolic punishment for their sins as they perform the traditional Malkot ceremony, a few hours before the start of Yom Kippur, the most solemn day in the Jewish calendar, in Jerusalem, September 18 
US President Donald Trump hands out food at Temple Baptist Church, where supplies are being distributed for the Hurricane Florence recovery efforts, in New Bern, North Carolina, USA, September 19 
Fish caught at the Beloye fishery in the Zhytkavichy District, southeastern Belarus, September 17 
The Zaryadye Concert Hall ahead of the inauguration of Sergei Sobyanin as Moscow Mayor, September 18 
Vladimir Putin takes part in blessing of foundation stone of Russian Army’s main cathedral, Chilean police officers march with the puppies of future police dogs, Donald Trump distributes meals and other photographs of ther week. The world in pictures in a photo gallery by TASS 
Sanctions cannot decrease rate of arms production in Russia — Deputy PM 
On September 20, the US blacklisted 33 Russian individuals and entities associated with the country’s defense industry and intelligence agencies 
MAGADAN, September 23. /TASS/. Sanctions cannot affect the rate of arms production in Russia, Deputy Prime Minister Yuri Borisov told the Rossiya-1 TV channel. 
It is just impossible to decrease our rate of development in this field, he said, adding we will always find a way out of any situation. 
US sanctions 
On September 20, the US blacklisted 33 Russian individuals and entities associated with the country’s defense industry and intelligence agencies. The move was made in accordance with the 2017 Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). 
According to a senior US Senior State Department official, Section 231 of CAATSA focuses on those who engage in significant transactions with entities that appear on the list, which now contains 72 names. It means that US can now sanction countries cooperating with Russia’s defense industry and intelligence agencies. 
Luka Modric clinches Best FIFA Men’s Player Award 2018 
Footballer became the first player since 2007 to end Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi's 11-year hold on the prize 
LONDON, September 25. /TASS/. Croatian professional footballer Luka Modric was named the world's best male player at the Best Fifa Football Awards in London. Modric became the first player since 2007 to end Cristiano Ronaldo and Lionel Messi's 11-year hold on the prize. 
Mohamed Salah won 2018 FIFA Puskas award for his strike against Everton last December. The Puskas Award was established by the FIFA in October 2009 in order to award a player, who scored the most beautiful or significant goal of the year. The award was named in honor of Ferenc Puskas, who played as a striker for Real Madrid and the Hungarian national team in late 1950s and in 1960s. 
Didier Deschamps won the FIFA Best Men's Coach award after France’s victory at the 2018 World Cup. 
Brazilian forward Marta and Reynald Pedros received The Best FIFA Women’s Player and Women’s coach respectively. 
FIFA FIFPro World 11 included David de Gea, Dani Alves, Raphael Varane, Sergio Ramos, Marcelo, N'Golo Kante, Luka Modric, Kylian Mbappe, Lionel Messi, Eden Hazard, Cristiano Ronaldo. 
Intralinks and Axiom Alliance Benefits European Dealmakers 
Relationship lets EMEA dealmakers securely accelerate deal timelines 
LONDON, Sept. 26, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Intralinks®, a leading virtual data room (VDR) provider, and Axiom, the leading global alternative legal services provider, announced today that their alliance has been extended to the EMEA region. The alliance enables Intralinks' EMEA customers to leverage Axiom's multi-jurisdictional talent and its Contracts Intelligence Platform technology to accelerate contract review, unearth deal synergies and provide critical business insights. 
Until now, European organizations preparing for an M&A event did not have rapid, cost-effective access to secure technology capable of driving quantitative insights, said Laurent Sultan, SVP Sales EMEA. Intralinks' partnership with Axiom changes that. 
Axiom's Contracts Intelligence Platform uses state-of-the-art Artificial Intelligence (AI) technology to speed the contract review process, reveal potential deal synergies and provide business-critical information in a user-friendly portal. 
The alliance also creates efficiencies by: 
Reducing the diligence timeline 
Accelerating and improving integration outcomes 
Protecting sensitive and confidential data 
Axiom's AI-driven analysis has become the gold standard for enabling the acceleration of deal timelines. This alliance sets a new platinum standard for the way EMEA deals can, and should, get done, said Conor Miller, SVP of M&A Due Diligence and Integration Services at Axiom. 
About Intralinks 
Intralinks is a leading financial technology provider for the global banking, dealmaking and capital markets communities. As pioneers of the virtual data room, Intralinks enables and secures the flow of information facilitating strategic initiatives such as mergers and acquisitions, capital raising and investor reporting. In its 22-year history Intralinks has earned the trust and business of more than 99 percent of the Fortune 1000 and has executed over US$34.7 trillion worth of financial transactions on its platform. For more information, visit www.intralinks.com. 
About Axiom 
Axiom, a recognized leader in the business of law, provides tech-enabled legal, contracts and compliance solutions for large enterprises. Axiom's solutions combine legal experience, technology and data analytics to deliver work in a way that dramatically reduces risk, cost and cycle-time. The firm comprises 2,000-plus lawyers, professionals, process engineers and technologists who serve over half the Fortune 100 across 15 regions and 3 centres of excellence globally. www.axiomlaw.com 
The Netherlands supports decision to task OPCW to investigate chemical weapons use 
The decision on giving the OPCW attributive functions was made during the Special Session of the Conference of the States Parties to the Chemical Weapons Convention in The Hague on June 26-27 
THE UNITED NATIONS, September 27. /TASS/. The Netherlands backs the decision to attribute the right to identify those guilty in chemical weapons attacks to the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW), Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte said on Wednesday at a session of the United Nations Security Council on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
Because of the stalemate in this body, we have tasked the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons to investigate and identify those responsible for the use of these weapons, he said. We cannot sit back. We have to speak up, take action and firmly support the OPCW, so that perpetrators can be brought to justice. And we need to do this together. 
The repeated use of chemical weapons is deeply alarming. It causes terrible human suffering and erodes the established international norm, Rutte said. There should be no impunity for any use of chemical weapons. Not for the large-scale attacks in Syria nor for the individual attacks in Malaysia and the UK. The same goes for the possible use of chemical weapons by the Syrian regime in Idlib. 
All of us, both within and outside this Council, bear a responsibility, he added. 
The decision on giving the OPCW attributive functions was made during the Special Session of the Conference of the States Parties to the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) in The Hague on June 26-27. Russia opposed the idea of giving the organization the right to punish those behind chemical attacks, calling this decision illegitimate. 
Russia to devise response to Ukraine's sanctions along principle of reciprocity 
The Kremlin spokesman said that no particular measures have yet been formulated 
DUSHANBE, September 27. /TASS/. Moscow has not formulated its response to Ukraine's new anti-Russian sanctions yet but responses of this kind always follow the principle of reciprocity, the Kremlin press secretary, Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Thursday. 
We haven't formulated any measures yet but I'd like to say once again we act upon the principle of reciprocity and the priority of the steps that suit our interests the best, he said. 
Ukraine’s National Security and Defense Council and the Ministry of Economic Development have introduced sanctions against a number of Russian transport companies that signed agreements with the self-proclaimed unrecognized Donetsk and Lugansk republics, the SBU national security service said on Wednesday. 
At this moment, the National Security and Defense Council and the Ministry of Economic Development have imposed sanctions on a number of enterprises from the aggressor country [the way the pro-Kiev official agencies and media refer to Russia - TASS], the report said, adding that the list includes RZD Logistika, Promkomplektplast and Gazgolder companies, among others. 
The SBU said a number of Russian individuals and corporations signed foreign trade agreements since the beginning of 2018 with transport outlets operating in the territories uncontrolled by Kiev. 
The sanctions envision the blocking of assets, restrictions on commerce, partial or full suspension of the transit of resources across Ukraine’s territory and other limitations that will make it impossible for the ‘violators’ to carry out financial and economic operations in Ukraine.On the other hand, the removal of finances to other countries. 
BRICS foreign ministers agree on closer coordination 
Also, the sides considered further steps towards implementing the decision taken at the 10th summit of BRICS on July 25-27 in Johannesburg 
MOSCOW, September 28. /TASS/. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Thursday took part in a meeting of Foreign Ministers of the countries making up BRICS [Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa] on the sidelines of the 73rd session of the UN General Assembly, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a report. 
The ministers discussed the problems of peace and security maintenance, economic and financial stability, and sustainable development. They confirmed their countries’ intention to build up coordination at international floors on the basis of commitment to the principles of multilateralism and formation of a fairer and more equitable world order where the UN and international law would play the central role, the report said. 
Also, the sides considered further steps towards implementing the decision taken at the 10th summit of BRICS on July 25-27 in Johannesburg. 
The Brazilian Foreign Minister told the gathering about the plans for Brazil’s terms of rotating presidency in the association in 2019. 
The five ministers endorsed a communique at the end of the meeting. 
Damascus says satisfied with situation in Idlib 
Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem recalled that 'humanitarian corridors are functioning, but, regrettably, terrorists do not give civilians a possibility to leave Idlib' 
UNITED NATIONS, September 28. /TASS/. Syria’s authorities are satisfied with the situation in the Idlib governorate, Syrian Foreign Minister Walid Muallem said on Friday. 
Yes, we are satisfied with the situation, he said. Humanitarian corridors are functioning, but, regrettably, terrorists do not give civilians a possibility to leave Idlib. 
Terrorists must leave Idlib, the governorate should not be in the hands of foreigners, he stressed. I don’t know whether terrorists are already leaving it. I hope the process have started. 
Idlib is the only large region in Syria that is still controlled by illegal armed groups. In 2017, a northern de-escalation zone was established in Idlib to give shelter to militants and their families who are reluctant to voluntarily surrender arms. 
According to United Nations Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura, about 10,000 Jabhat al-Nusra and al-Qaeda (both outlawed in Russia) militants are currently staying in the region. When Damascus finally regains control of the governorate, it will put an end to the large-scale armed confrontation in Syria. 
2019 Winter Universiade to be long memorable in Russia and beyond, deputy minister says 
Russian Deputy Sports Minister Natalya Parshikova said a record number of nations is to take part in the competition 
MOSCOW, September 28. /TASS/. Both Russian and foreign athletes and fans will long remember the 2019 Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk, Russian Deputy Sports Minister Natalya Parshikova told reporters on Friday. 
A gala ceremony presenting the 2019 Winter Universiade in Russia’s Eastern Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk was held in Moscow on Friday. The ceremony took place at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry and was dedicated to a kickoff of Russian stage of the Universiade torch relay that starts in Moscow on Saturday. 
The Krasnoyarsk Universiade will become one of the most unique [events] because a record number of nations is to take part in it. They will compete in a record number of sports, Parshikova said. We will certainly see not only unique facilities but also the hospitality of local people that we have been witnessing at any major sporting event hosted by our countries’ towns and cities, she added. 
The Universiade will continue traditions of our state that opens a door to students from all over the world, she stressed. 
It is a great honor to be here in Moscow today. We are at a final stage of having Krasnoyarsk refurbished for the Universiade. For this purpose, infrastructure is under construction, facilities are being put into operation, and in October the city will play host to a wide range of test events, Maksim Urazov, director general of the 2019 Universiade’s Executive Directorate, told reporters. 
Tomorrow, the Russian stage of the torch relay starts in Moscow. It is a milestone, symbolic event. We invite all the guests to visit our hospitable and beautiful city and to plunge into the atmosphere of Student Games. 
On September 20, the torch relay kick started in Italy’s Turin, as it had been the first city to host the Universiade in 1959. Moscow will become the first city to pick up the torch in Russia. Then the flame will travel across 17 regions of the world’s largest country. It will arrive in the host city of Krasnoyarsk on March 1, 2019. 
Russia will host its third Universiade next year. In Krasnoyarsk, more than 3,000 athletes from over 50 countries will compete for 76 sets of medals in eleven sports on March 2-12. 
US blacklists two Estonia-based companies supplying electronics to Russia 
The black list also includes ex-owners of Estonian companies who are allegedly still involved in the business of the companies 
WASHINGTON, October 1. /TASS/. The US Department of Commerce has blacklisted two Estonian companies - Eastline Technologies and Adimir - as well as Real Components, a Moscow-based company, for supplying electronics prohibited for export to Russia from the US by way of Estonia and Finland. According the Commerce Department’s statement released on Monday, the blacklist also targets the ex-owners of Eastline Technologies - Valery Kosmachev and Sergey Vetrov - who, according to US authorities, have still maintained their roles in the business. 
According to the document, Kosmachev and Vetrov were the co-owners of Eastline Technologies until 2016, but now Valeria Mikhailova, who is allegedly the daughter of Kosmachev, owns it. 
What’s more, Vetrov is the owner of Real Components and Kosamachev named himself as the owner of Adimir. 
In particular, these companies bought gate arrays in the US and delivered them to Russia via Estonia and Finland, regardless the fact that this requires a license under US law. 
The Department of Commerce cites Kosmachev, who in 2015 told US authorities it's easier to ship electronics into Estonia than into Russia, that is why he set up his company in Tallinn. He also said, all of deliveries of Eastline Technologies go from Tallinn to Helsinki, and then they cross the border by truck, because it is faster and cheaper than transporting electronics directly from Estonia to Russia. 
According to the press release, Kosmachyov and Vetrov are deprived of their export privileges for 180 days and are banned from buying (indirectly or directly) goods, software or technology if their exports require a license. 
The Department of Commerce has not indicated what citizenship Kosmachev, Vetrov and Mikhailova hold. 
Putin castigates US for single-handedly undermining dollar’s credibility 
Through its sanctions policy, the US is single-handedly subverting confidence in the dollar as the global reserve currency, Putin says 
MOSCOW, October 3. /TASS/. Through its sanctions policy, the United States is single-handedly subverting confidence in the dollar as the global reserve currency, Russian President Vladimir Putin said, speaking at a plenary session at the Moscow-hosted Russian Energy Week. 
It seems to me that our American partners are making an enormous strategic mistake, they are undermining confidence in the dollar as a universal, and in fact the sole reserve currency today, subverting faith in it as a universal tool. They are indeed sawing off the branch they are sitting on. So this is strange and even surprising, Putin said, commenting on the attempts by other countries to circumvent US sanctions against Iran. 
The Russian leader believes that this is a typical mistake of any empire - when people think that nothing will happen, everything is so powerful, so strong, and so stable that there won’t be any negative consequences. 
But no, they will come sooner or later, the Russian leader cautioned. 
When asked to comment on the EU’s initiative to skirt Washington’s sanctions against Iran, Putin noted that it was a bit late, but better late than never. Putin believes that in this case Europe wants to fulfill its international obligations under the Iranian nuclear deal and regards it, just like Russia does, as a component of stability in global affairs and politics, which somehow contributes to the global economy. 
The Russian leader recalled that French President Emmanuel Macron had recently pointed to the need to bolster the European Union’s economic sovereignty and reduce its dependence on the United States. 
Of course, this is correct - what else can you expect, when someone tries to get competitive advantages in business using political tools? I think no one will like it, but it is happening and we are seeing it today, Putin said. Therefore, under these circumstances, Europe is looking for some new opportunities, say, for alternative settlements, in addition to settlements in dollars, which, undermines the dollar itself, by the way, Putin pointed out. 
Kiev's actions ruin relations between Ukraine and Hungary, Budapest says 
The top diplomat recalled that the Ukrainian education law 'which violates the rights of the Hungarian ethnic minority', has not yet been amended 
MOSCOW, October 3. /TASS/. Kiev’s actions with respect to the Hungarian ethnic minority have ruined the good relations between Ukraine and Hungary that had existed in the past, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto said on Wednesday following talks with his Russian counterpart Sergey Lavrov. 
As for the well-known list I was added to (on the Myrotvorets website - TASS), there are even greater problems. This big problem is that the rights of the Hungarian population in Ukraine are constantly violated, he said. 
A much bigger problem is that the law on education Ukraine had passed, which violates the rights of the Hungarian ethnic minority, has not been amended to date. Despite the fact that we are interested in good-neighborly relations with Kiev, Ukraine’s president and government reduced to zero good contacts between our country and Ukraine, the top diplomat said. 
The notorious Myrotvorets (Peacemaker) Ukrainian website earlier added Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto to its database. 
The reason for the aggravation of the Ukrainian-Hungarian relations was the video supposedly filmed in the Hungarian Consulate in the city of Beregovo in Ukraine’s southwestern Transcarpathian Region. It shows the issuance of Hungarian passports, presumably to residents of that region. 
On Wednesday, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Pavel Klimkin said that Kiev would send a note to Hungary on October 4 on the expulsion of the consul from Beregovo. Szijjarto said Hungary would respond with the expulsion of the Ukrainian consul. 
Serbia's president lifts full combat alert 
Tthe army, however, continues to maintain contact with all the security agencies, keeping an eye on the situation 
BELGRADE, October 4. /TASS/. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has reversed his order to put the country’s armed forces on full combat alert following the recent crisis in northern Kosovo, the Serbian Defense Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. 
Serbia’s President and Supreme Commander-in-Chief of the Serbian Armed Forces Aleksandar Vucic has ordered Defense Minister Aleksandar Vulin And General Staff of the Serbian Army Lieutenant General Milan Mojsilovic to lift full combat alert, the statement reads. 
According to the Defense Ministry, the army continues to maintain contact with all the security agencies, keeping an eye on the situation, and stands ready to defend the country and its citizens no matter where they reside. 
Tensions in Kosovo 
On September 29, more than one hundred Kosovo commandos invaded Serbian enclaves in the north of Kosovo, which is prohibited under international treaties. The commandos took positions around Lake Gazivoda, took control of the Gazivoda hydropower plant and intruded into the Ecology and Development Center in Zubin Potok. According to Serbian Director of the Office for Kosovo and Metohija Marko Djuric, the move was aimed at ensuring the security of the self-proclaimed Kosovo’s leader, Hashim Thaci, during his visit to the region’s north. In response, the Serbian president put the country’s armed forces and special police units on high alert and voiced protest to NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. 
Serbia’s autonomous province of Kosovo unilaterally declared independence in February 2008. In 2010, its independence was recognized by the International Court of Justice (CIJ). Kosovo claims to have been recognized by 117 countries so far, while Serbia says Kosovo enjoys the support of 105 nations. More than 60 countries, including Russia, China, India, Israel and five EU member states, oppose Kosovo’s independence. 
Over the past several months, Belgrade and Pristina have been actively discussing a compromise solution related to border changes and an exchange of territories. The United States backs this idea, insisting that a final deal should be reached on changing the borders of Serbia and the unrecognized republic. German Chancellor Angela Merkel opposes border changes in the Balkan region, stressing that all regional states have the prospect of joining the European Union. 
Soyuz MS-08 with three-man crew on board separates from ISS 
The trio returning from the ISS to the Earth are Roscosmos cosmonaut Oleg Artemyev and NASA astronauts Richard Arnold and Andrew Feustel 
KOROLYOV /Moscow Region/, October 4. /TASS/. The Soyuz MS-08 spacecraft with three participants in the prolonged space expedition 55/56 has separated from the International Space Station (ISS) and begun the journey home, Mission Control near Moscow told the media on Thursday. 
The Soyuz MS-08 has been detached from the ISS. According to the telemetry data, the procedure was normal. The commander said he had no critical remarks to make, Mission Control's spokesman said. 
The trio returning from the ISS to the Earth are Roscosmos cosmonaut Oleg Artemyev and NASA astronauts Richard Arnold and Andrew Feustel. 
At 13:51 the engines of Soyuz MS-08 will be turned on to slow down the spacecraft and send it into descent. The reentry capsule is expected to touch the surface near the city of Dzhezkazgan at 14:45 Moscow time. 
A crew of three - Roscosmos’s Sergei Prokopiev, and US and German astronauts Serena Aunon-Chancellor and Alexander Gerst - remains on the ISS. The next expedition - Russia’s Alexei Ovchinin and the United States’ Nick Hague will leave Baikonur on board the Soyuz MS-10 for the ISS on October 11. 
Russia, Madagascar sign agreement on military cooperation 
The agreement was signed during the visit of the Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces, who was received by Prime Minister of Madagascar Christian Ntsay 
MOSCOW, October 5. /TASS/. Russia and Madagascar have signed an intergovernmental agreement on military cooperation, the press service of the Russian defense ministry said on Friday. 
The agreement was signed during the visit of Deputy Chief of the General Staff of the Russian Armed Forces Lieutenant General Yevgeny Burdinsky who was received by Prime Minister of Madagascar Christian Ntsay. 
The meeting yielded an agreement between the governments of Russia and Madagascar on military cooperation, the Russian defense ministry said. 
Burdinsky and Ntsay discussed issues of regional security and areas of cooperation between the two countries’ armed forces. 
Burdinsky visited a number of units of Madagascar’s army, familiarized himself with its structure, weapons and hardware. 
Greek PM may visit Russian on December 12 - newspaper 
The visit will be preceded by a meeting of the Russian-Greek commission on economic, industrial and research cooperation due to take place on December 5 
ATHENS, October 7. /TASS/. Greece’s Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras has been invited to visit Moscow on December 12 and meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin, the Nea Selida newspaper reported on Sunday. 
According to Nea Selida, the visit will be an attempt to heal up the wounds inflicted on the bilateral relations by the expulsion of diplomats this summer. The newspaper says the visit was originally planned for an earlier date but was frozen. 
The focus during the visit will be made on bilateral relations and possibilities for cooperation in such areas as trade, shipping, tourism and energy, as well as on regional problems, the situation in Syria, the Greek-Turkish relations and the Cypriot problem, the newspaper wrote. 
The visit will be preceded by a meeting of the Russian-Greek commission on economic, industrial and research cooperation due to take place on December 5, it added. 
Tsipras said in early September he had received an invitation to visit Russia throughout 2018. On October 4, a source in Greek diplomatic circles told TASS the visit might be organized in the first half of December. 
In July, Greece expelled two Russian diplomats and denied entry to two more. According to the Kathemirini newspaper, Athens accused these people of meddling with Greece’s domestic affairs and of acting to undermine its national security. The Russian foreign ministry summoned Greek Ambassador to Moscow Andreas Friganas to hand in a note of tit-for-tat measures. 
Havana to Host the First Russia–Latin America Business Forum 
On 29 October 2018, the capital of the Republic of Cuba, Havana, is to host the presentation of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum 2019 to the countries of Latin America and the Caribbean at the Russia–Latin America Business Forum. The event is to take place during the duration of the 16th meeting of the Intergovernmental Russian–Cuban Commission for Trade, Economic, Scientific and Technical Cooperation under the leadership of Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation Yury Borisov. Techzvetmet LLC is General Partner of the event. Russia–Latin America Business Forum takes place for the second time. The event premiered in Montevideo, the capital of Uruguay in March 2016. 
The Roscongress Foundation and the Bering-Bellingshausen Institute for the Americas (IBBA) are the organizers of the Forum supported by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Energy of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Trade and Foreign Investment of the Republic of Cuba. The event will take place at the 36th Havana International Fair FIHAV. 
“The development of cooperation with the countries of the Latin American region remains a priority for Russia. Such business events always draw remarkable attention of our Cuban colleagues and partners. This point is proven by both St. Petersburg International Economic Forum last June, and the Second Eurasian Women’s Forum that wrapped up 21 September that has been attended by a representative delegation from Cuba. The Russia–Latin America Business Forum is a logical continuation of the dialogue initiated in St. Petersburg, and will once again focus on key areas of cooperation between our countries and the prospects for their development, as well as identify new points of interaction between Russia and Cuba,” emphasized Adviser to the President of the Russian Federation Anton Kobyakov. 
The Second Russia–Latin America Business Forum brings together the leadership of the major Russian and Latin American enterprises, heads of export-oriented companies, representatives of federal executive bodies, as well as officials from Latin America and the Caribbean. 
The Russia–Latin America Business Forum will become a unique platform for interaction between representatives of Russian and Latin American officials and business communities, discussing the prospects for trade, economic and investment cooperation between Russia and countries of the region, as well as issues of state support for Russian and Latin American business, development of integration processes in Europe and in Latin America. 
The Roscongress Foundation the Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation participate in putting together the business programme of the event. A plenary session dedicated to current issues in the development of Russian–Cuban official, business and trade relations between Russia and countries of the Latin America is to be the focal event of the Forum’s business programme. 
AlfaStrakhovanie to run workshop on using neural networks in insurance at FINOPOLIS 2018 
The Youth Day programme at the FINOPOLIS financial forum will include a workshop run by Denis Tsybin, Chief Specialist for Insurance Systems Management and Development at AlfaStrakhovanie, which will focus on the use of neural networks in insurance. 
The speaker will provide a detailed overview of machine learning, including its main functions and application in building solutions for insurance companies. He will also dissect the classification of neural networks, which differ in how neurons are connected in terms of the organization or topology by which they interact. 
“Neural networks enable us to analyse a large amount of indirect or noisy data. When used correctly, they can improve the quality of solutions employed in an underwriter’s day-to-day business processes. They can also increase the speed at which analytics are collected to take management decisions, and at which various financial issues are settled,” said Vladimir Muravyev, Chief Information Officer at AlfaStrakhovanie. 
“Those attending the workshop will have the opportunity to participate in building a neural network based on a special data set, and experts will be on hand to provide feedback on each case study,” said Maxim Solovyev, representative of the Business Process Quality Department at AlfaStrakhovanie. 
AlfaStrakhovanie Group encompasses AlfaStrakhovanie, AlfaStrakhovanie-Life, AlfaStrakhovanie-OMS, and Medicine AlfaStrakhovanie. With a capital of RUB 14.3 billion, AlfaStrakhovanie Group is part of the Alfa-Group financial and industrial consortium, which includes Alfa-Bank, Alfa-Capital, A1, Rosvodokanal, and X5 Retail Group N.V.). AlfaStrakhovanie offers more than 100 insurance services under its licence, including accident and life insurance, and has a network of over 270 regional offices across Russia specializing in insurance. More than 24.8 million customers in the country have taken advantage of the group’s services. AlfaStrakhovanie Group has an international credit rating of BB from Fitch, and a reliability rating of ruAA+ from Expert RA – the highest possible level. 
The Roscongress Foundation is a socially oriented non-financial development institution and a major organizer of international conventions, exhibition and public events. 
The Roscongress Foundation was founded in 2007 with the aim of facilitating the development of Russia’s economic potential and strengthening the country’s image by organizing international conventions, exhibitions, and public events. The Foundation develops substantive content for such events, providing companies and organizations with advice, information, and expert guidance, and offering comprehensive evaluation, analysis, and coverage of the Russian and global economic agendas. It offers administrative services and promotional support for business projects and helps to attract investment, including in the form of public-private partnerships. 
Today, its annual programme includes events held from Montevideo to Vladivostok, offering an opportunity to bring together global business leaders, experts, the media, and government officials in one place, creating favourable conditions for dialogue and the promotion of new ideas and projects, and assisting in the creation of social enterprise and charity projects. 
Fossil bones of cave lions discovered in Siberia 
Fossil bones of cave lions and brown bears have been discovered in the Arctic areas of West Siberia 
YEKATERINBURG, October 9. /TASS/. Fossil bones of cave lions and brown bears have been discovered on the Gydan Peninsula in the Arctic areas of West Siberia, for the first time that far north, a Russian paleontologist said on Tuesday. 
Fossil bones of cave lions and brown bears, very rare species, have been found there. More to it, this the first such find in West Siberia, Pavel Kosintsev, a senior research fellow of the paleoecology laboratory at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology, told a news conference at TASS’ Urals region center. 
We have already agreed with specialists, geneticists that they will try to find out the genealogy of these cave lions. A sample has already been sent for analysis, he said. 
Now, the habitat of these animals looks wider than it was believed before. In general, this region is interesting because it is located very close to the glacier that used to cover Scandinavia, i.e. it presented most harsh environmental conditions, Kosintsev noted, adding that the most probable reason for cave lions reaching these latitudes was their migrating after their prey animals. 
According to earlier reports, a cemetery of fossil mammoth fauna, the biggest one in Russia’s Arctic, was found during an expedition to the Gydan Peninsula. Paleontologists collected more than 1,500 bones of mammoths, reindeers, horses, musk oxen, bison and other animals. 
Cave lions, or Panthera leo spelaea, roamed the Eurasian continent, from Britain to the extreme east of Russia, as well as Alaska and north western Canada in the Middle and Late Pleistocene epoch (300,000-10,000 years ago). These cats received their name not because they lived in caves, but because their skeletons were found in cave bear (Ursus spelaeus) habitats. Being opportunistic predators, cave lions preyed on hibernating cave bears, along with lots of other mammals. 
NATO countries not showing readiness to join nuclear disarmament effort, says diplomat 
Vladimir Yermakov stressed that it is necessary to simultaneously enhance security of all involved in the bloc 
MOSCOW, October 10. /TASS/. Russia regrets that none of NATO members have shown readiness to join the nuclear disarmament effort, Director of the Russian Foreign Ministry’s Non-Proliferation and Arms Control Department Vladimir Yermakov told a meeting of the UN General Assembly’s First Committee on Tuesday. 
Further progress towards nuclear disarmament is impossible if all states which possess military nuclear potential do not join the efforts. First of all, this concerns particular countries of the NATO military bloc. However, to our great regret, none of them have so far signaled this desire, Yermakov said. The text of his speech was posted on the ministry’s website on Wednesday. 
For a process of eliminating nuclear weapons, it is vital to simultaneously enhance security of all its participants in the course of reducing nuclear arsenals, the diplomat stressed. 
Three NATO member-states possess nuclear weapons: the United States, the United Kingdom and France. 
Marinato Guilherme to defend Russia’s goal at UEFA Nations League match against Sweden 
Russian national team’s famous goalkeeper Igor Akenfeev, who is also a goalkeeper for CSKA Moscow FC, announced on October 1 his decision to retire playing for the national squad 
KALININGRAD, October 10. /TASS/. Brazil-born Marinato Guilherme will be the starting goalkeeper for the Russian national football team during the UEFA Nations League match between Russia and Sweden on Thursday night in Russia’s Kaliningrad, Head Coach Stanislav Cherchesov said on Wednesday. 
The match between the national squads of Russia and Sweden is scheduled to be played on October 11 at the over 35,000-seat capacity stadium in Russia’s westernmost city of Kaliningrad, which hosted games of the 2018 FIFA World Cup, starting at 9:45 p.m. local time (19:45 GMT). 
Guilherme will be the starting goalkeeper of the Russian national team in the match against the Swedish national squad, Cherchesov told journalists. 
Russian national team’s famous goalkeeper Igor Akenfeev, who is also a goalkeeper for CSKA Moscow FC, announced on October 1 his decision to retire playing for the national squad. Cherchesov said on Monday that the Russian team still had a strong line-up of goalkeepers despite Akenfeev’s retirement from the squad. 
Akenfeev began playing for the national team on April 28, 2004, in a friendly match against Norway, becoming the youngest player to debut on the national team at the age of 18 years and 20 days. He was nicknamed ‘the almighty leg’ after a brilliant block of his net during a penalty shootout with the Spanish national squad during the 2018 FIFA World Cup’s match of Round 16 against Spain in July, when hosts Russia progressed to the quarterfinals stage. 
The Russian Football Union (RFU) Commercial Director Vladimir Karpovich told TASS earlier on Wednesday that all tickets had been sold out for the match on Thursday night. 
The Nations League is a new biennial football tournament for men’s national teams of all the 55-member states of the European governing football body, UEFA (the Union of European Football Associations). 
Also this week, on October 14, Russia is scheduled to play the UEFA Nations League second-leg match against Turkey at the over 44,200-seat capacity Fisht Stadium in Russia’s southern city of Sochi. Some 26.000 tickets have been already sold for the match in Sochi, which kicks off at 7:00 p.m. local time on Sunday (16:00 GMT). 
Last month, the Russia defeated Turkey 2-1 in the first-leg match of the UEFA Nations League. The match was played in Turkey’s Trabzon at the over 43,000-seat capacity Senol Gunes Stadium. 
The tournament’s participants have been divided into four divisions or Leagues, namely from League A, which enlists the strongest teams, to League D. Each League has been divided into groups and the Russian national team was placed into Group 2 of the League B. 
The Russian team shares its group with the national squads of Turkey and Sweden. All teams in the group will have to play two matches against each other (away and at home) and the best team in the group will be eventually promoted to League A, while the 3rd place team will be demoted to League C. 
The Nations League format was adopted at the UEFA Congress in Astana on March 27, 2014, and the tournament was aimed at replacing international friendly football fixtures, which sports experts often deemed to be useless. 
There are currently 12 teams in League A, 12 teams in League B, 15 teams in League C, and 16 teams in League D. Four nations, finishing in the top of each League, will also qualify for the 2020 UEFA Euro Cup. 
The inaugural UEFA Nations League tournament kicked off in early September. The teams finishing in the top of their Leagues will be promoted to League A, which will have the national squads competing next June in the Nations League Finals. 
Next summer’s tournament will include two semifinals and one final to decide which team becomes the UEFA Nations League champion. The winner of the new tournament will be awarded with a sterling-silver trophy representing all 55-member nations of the UEFA. 
Strategic nuclear forces’ drills held in Russia 
Russian submarines and long-range aircraft held drills to live-fire missiles from the Barents and Okhotsk Seas 
MOSCOW, October 11. /TASS/. The Russian Strategic Nuclear Forces were put on alert for drills on order from President Vladimir Putin, the Defense Ministry said in a statement on Thursday. 
The exercise of the Strategic Nuclear Forces was held on October 11, 2018 on order from Russian President and Supreme Commander-in-Chief Vladimir Putin, the statement reads. 
According to the Defense Ministry, Russian submarines and long-range aircraft held drills to live-fire missiles from the Barents and Okhotsk Seas. 
Ballistic missiles were live-fired from submarines, along with the launches of airborne cruise and aircraft missiles from the Barents and Okhotsk Seas, including by long-range aircraft, which took off from the Engels, Ukrainka and Shaikovka airfields, the ministry said in a statement. 
The statement also said that Russia’s missile early warning system had detected all the launches of ballistic missiles from submarines in drills and the data on the launches was transmitted to command posts. 
The unified space system and ground-based radar stations have timely detected all the launches of ballistic missiles from submarines, the ministry stated. The data on the launches was transmitted to the posts of controlling the state and the armed forces in accordance with the established procedure. 
Putin approves report on 2017Y federal budget performance 
According to the report, federal treasury revenues amounted to 15.1 trillion rubles ($227.8 bln) in 2017 
MOSCOW, October 11. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin signed the law on performance of the federal budget for 2017. The document was posted on Thursday on the official web portal of legislative acts. 
According to the report, federal treasury revenues amounted to 15.1 trillion rubles ($227.8 bln) in 2017. Expenditures totaled 16.4 trillion rubles ($247.4 bln) in the reporting period. Deficit of the federal budget equaled 1.3 trillion rubles ($19.6 bln). Oil and gas revenues accounted for 6 trillion rubles ($90.5 bln) within the total amount of federal budget revenues. Non oil and gas revenues equaled 9.1 trillion rubles ($137.3 bln). 
Performance of the federal budget in 2017 took place in the environment of improving global market situation for main goods of traditional Russian export and growing rate of the national currency against the US dollar and the euro, the budget and financial markets committee of the Federation Council said in its conclusion. 
GDP amounted to 92 trillion rubles ($1.4 trillion) in current market prices in January - December 2017, making up 99.8% of projected volume. GDP growth in 2017 was 1.5% against 2016, below the forecast of 2.1%. Development of telecom infrastructure, wholesale and retail trade, culture and sports contributed to GDP growth. 
Fragment of faulty Soyuz rocket found in Kazakhstan 
Kazakh specialists have found a fragment of the faulty Soyuz-FG carrier rocket 40 km from the city of Zhezkazgan 
ASTANA, October 12. /TASS/. Kazakh specialists have found a fragment of the faulty Soyuz-FG carrier rocket 40 km from the city of Zhezkazgan in the Karaganda Region, spokesman for the Emergencies Committee of Kazakhstan’s Interior Ministry Nursultan Nurakhmetov told TASS on Friday. 
Following the results of the search measures, the Emergencies Committee personnel have found a fragment of the nose fairing’s flap 40 km from the city of Zhezkazgan. The fragment has been handed over to Roscosmos [Russian space agency] specialists. The radioactive and chemical situation at the fall site is normal and there are no victims or persons hurt by the accident. The fragment was discovered yesterday evening, Nurakhmetov said. 
A Soyuz-FG carrier rocket with a manned Soyuz MS-10 spacecraft blasted off from the Baikonur spaceport in Kazakhstan to the International Space Station (ISS) on Thursday. The carrier rocket with the manned spacecraft lifted off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome at 11:40 a.m. Moscow time. 
The manned spacecraft carried Russian cosmonaut Alexei Ovchinin (the commander of the Soyuz MS-10) and NASA astronaut Nick Hague. 
The Soyuz booster aborted after its launch, after which the crew switched to the mode of a ballistic descent. The manned Soyuz MS-10 spacecraft landed in the Kazakh steppe. 
As the press office of Russia’s Central Military District reported, rescuers recovered the crew from the descent capsule and the crew members are in good condition. 
This is the first emergency with this type of carrier rockets over the past 35 years. 
Russia's top diplomat stresses that agreement on Syria’s Idlib is temporary 
Idlib is the only large region in Syria that is still controlled by illegal armed groups 
MOSCOW, October 12. /TASS/. The agreement on a demilitarized zone in Syria’s Idlib has a temporary character and the conflict will be over only when the Syrian government regains control over the entire territory of the country, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in an interview with RT France, Paris Match and Le Figaro. 
Indeed, it is a temporary agreement. The end of the story will be only the Syrian people regains control of the country and all those who are staying in Syria, especially those who were never invited there, leave that country. It is clear for all, the Russian foreign ministry quoted him as saying. 
The September 17 talks between the Russian and Turkish Presidents, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in Russia’s Sochi yielded and agreement to establish a demilitarized zone in Syria’s Idlib, along the contact line between government troops and the opposition by October 15. It is planned to withdraw the opposition’s tanks, multiple missile launcher systems, artillery systems and mortars from this zone. Control in this zone will be exercised by mobile patrol groups of Turkish troops and unites of Russian military police. 
Idlib is the only large region in Syria that is still controlled by illegal armed groups. In 2017, a northern de-escalation zone was established in Idlib to give shelter to militants and their families who are reluctant to voluntarily surrender arms. 
According to United Nations Secretary General’s Special Envoy for Syria Staffan de Mistura, about 10,000 Jabhat al-Nusra and al-Qaeda (both outlawed in Russia) militants are currently staying in the region. When Damascus finally regains control of the governorate, it will put an end to the large-scale armed confrontation in Syria. 
Russia and Egypt ready to take their partneship to new level — Lavrov 
Russia's foreign minister noted that political dialogue between Russia and Egypt is actively developing, and bilateral trade turnover is growing after exceeding the level of $6.5 billion per year 
MOSCOW, October 13. /TASS/. Russia and Egypt continue working on taking the multifaceted partnership between the two countries to a new level, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov wrote in his article Russia and Egypt: Time-Tested Friendship and Cooperation published on the website of Egypt's Al-Ahram newspaper on Saturday. 
Lavrov noted that political dialogue between Russia and Egypt is actively developing, and bilateral trade turnover is growing after exceeding the level of $6.5 billion per year. 
Cooperation in the military and military-technical spheres allows Egypt's armed forces and law enforcment to counter terrorist threats more effectively, the foreign minister noted. New forms of cooperation in this sphere are successfully tried out. In October 2016 on the territory of Egypt and in September 2017 on the territory of Russia, joint anti-terrorist Defenders of Friendship 2016 and Defenders of Friendship 2017 drills were held between the air forces of the two countries, he added. 
Moscow and Cairo consistently support the settlement of multiple crises and conflicts through exclusively political and diplomatic means, as well as uniting the international community for countering terrorism and extremism, and strengthening the regime of the nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction, Lavrov said. We are ready to boost coordination at different multilateral platforms, particularly with the aim of ensuring peace and stability in the Middle East, as well as observance of the right of peoples in the region to independently determine their future, the foreign minister stressed. 
Thus, all necessary prerequisites are apparent for taking the multifaceted partnership between Russia and Egypt to a new level, in the interest of prosperity of our citizens, of maintaining global and regional stability, the Russian foreign minister concluded. 
Olympic champions greet 2019 Winter Universiade flame in Stavropol 
The next stage of the relay will be held in Chechnya's capital Grozny on October 20 
STAVROPOL, October 13. /TASS/. Stavropol has become the first city to welcome the flame of the 2019 Winter Universiade in Russia’s North Caucasus on Saturday. 
Our Olympic champions were responsible for the first and the final stage of the torch relay. This shows that we keep in mind our wonderful sporting traditions and are ready for new victories, the deputy chairman of the regional government, Irina Kuvaldina, said, addressing the crowd. 
A total of 25 torch-bearers - athletes, community leaders, regional government officials and businessmen - carried the Universiade flame along the city's streets. Each torchbearer covered the distance of 200 meters. 
1996 Summer Olympics champion in weightlifting, Andrei Chemerkin, began the torch relay, while handball player Igor Lavrov, who won the Olympic gold with his team in 2000, completed it. 
After the event was over, the flame was given to the caretaker, who will deliver it to the Chechen capital Grozny, where the next stage of the relay will be held on October 20. 
2019 Winter Universiade torch relay 
The 2019 Winter Universiade torch relay began on September 20 in Italy’s Turin, as it was the first city to host the Universiade in 1959. Torchbearers carried the Universiade Flame along the streets of Almaty (Kazakhstan) and Harbin (China). Moscow, Simferopol and Kaliningrad were the first Russian cities to welcome the Universiade Flame. 
The torch relay will pass through 30 Russian cities and towns and arrive on March 1, 2019 in the eastern Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, where on March 2, the 29th World Winter Universiade will be declared open at a gala ceremony. 
Russian athletes pack six medals on Day Eight of 2018 Youth Olympics in Buenos Aires 
The set of six medals after Sunday’s competitions includes two gold, two silver and two bronze medals 
BUENOS AIRES, October 15. /TASS/. The Russian national team has maintained its strong lead in the overall medals standings of the 2018 Youth Olympic Games in Argentina’s Buenos Aires, packing six more medals on Day 8 of the international sports competition. 
The set of six medals after Sunday’s competitions includes two gold, two silver and two bronze medals. The gold went to Sergei Kozyrev (men’s freestyle wrestling, under-110 kg) and Akhmedhan Tembotov (men’s freestyle wrestling, under-80 kg). 
The silver was packed by Yegor Gromadsky (in men’s pentathlon and cross country) and Violetta Ignatyeva (women’s discus throwing), while the two bronze medals were brought by Ruslan Ternovoi (men’s 3m springboard diving) and Vera Belyankina (women’s trampoline). 
The Russian national squad has been in the lead of the medal standings starting from the global tournament’s opening day and currently boasts a total of 43 medals (24 golds, 11 silvers and eight bronzes). It is followed by the teams from Hungary (12-6-3) and China (12-5-8). 
The 3rd Summer Youth Olympic Games, commonly referred to as the 2018 Buenos Aires, is an international sports, cultural and educational event hosted by Argentina's capital of Buenos Aires between October 6 and 18. 
The 2018 Youth Olympics Games bring together athletes from 206 countries to compete in 241 events in 32 sports. 
Turnover between Russia, Syria may reach $1 bln in coming years 
In 2017, the turnover between Syria and Russia was about $380 million 
DAMASCUS, October 15. /TASS/. Turnover between Russia and Syria may reach a billion dollars in the next two years, co-chairman of the Yalta International Economic Forum organizing committee and member of Crimea’s delegation to Syria Andrei Nazarov stated on Monday. 
Russian business would like to build relations with Syria, he said. We hope that in the next few years the turnover between our countries will reach the pre-war level. Already in a year or two we plan to reach the turnover of at least one billion dollars in the areas discussed today. 
The main areas of economic cooperation discussed by the Crimean delegation in Syria are deliveries of railway and electrical equipment, grains and flour, as well as Syrian phosphates. 
In 2017, the turnover between Syria and Russia was about $380 million. In the first eight months of 2018 it has reached $276 million. 
It is expected that the economic cooperation between Russia and Syria will expand due to the creation of a joint Russian-Syrian economic company that would facilitate stable trade between Crimea and Syrian ports of Latakia and Tartus. 
OneOme and St. Catherine Specialty Hospital to Increase Access to Pharmacogenetic Testing 
MINNEAPOLIS and ZAGREB, Croatia, Oct. 15, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- OneOme, co-founded with Mayo Clinic, announced today that they are partnering with St. Catherine Specialty Hospital, a European Center of Excellence, to bring innovative, actionable pharmacogenetic (PGx) testing to patients. 
St. Catherine Specialty Hospital will offer its patients the OneOme RightMed® comprehensive test, a PGx test that uses a person's DNA to predict their response to hundreds of medications. Using the RightMed test results and OneOme's supporting technology, physicians at St. Catherine may prescribe more effective medications with fewer side effects. 
St. Catherine is well regarded across the globe for its high quality of care and for its innovative diagnostic and personalized treatment strategies, said Paul Owen, CEO of OneOme. We look forward to further enhancing St. Catherine's level of care with the RightMed solution by helping its physicians optimize treatment strategies. 
The RightMed test covers 27 genes and hundreds of medications used to treat 30 medical conditions, including cancer, pain, psychiatric disorders, and cardiovascular disease. The comprehensive coverage of the RightMed test provides PGx results that can be used for years to come when treating these medical conditions. 
We selected the RightMed test because of its scientific rigor and because it covers more genes and medications than any other product we identified, said Dr. Dragan Primorac, president of the Board of Trustees at St. Catherine Specialty Hospital. We are particularly excited to provide clinical insights to guide the enhancement of OneOme's solution and for the potential the test holds in optimizing pain management. 
St. Catherine and OneOme are also collaborating on a research study to evaluate pain management treatments for lower back pain. 
About OneOme 
OneOme was co-founded with Mayo Clinic to bringing pharmacogenetic (PGx) testing into routine clinical care. OneOme is a privately held company backed by early-stage venture firm Invenshure, LLC, and Mayo Clinic. To learn more about OneOme, visit oneome.com. 
About St. Catherine Specialty Hospital 
St. Catherine is a university teaching hospital and the official hospital of the Croatian Olympic Committee and of the Croatian Football Federation. The Hospital is the first European recipient of U.S. Global Healthcare Accreditation and known for introducing the integrative concept of personalized medicine in clinical practice. To learn more about St. Catherine, visit www.svkatarina.hr/en. 
Russian ambassador puts forward Putin's initiatives on Russia-US relations at Fort Ross 
We reminded our colleagues about the proposals put forward by Vladimir Putin at a press conference with US President Donald Trump, Russian Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov said 
SAN FRANCISCO, October 16. /TASS/. Russian Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov has put forward Russian President Vladimir Putin's initiatives to set up a council of entrepreneurs of the two countries and a commission of former ministers and political analysts. This announcement was made at the sidelines of the annual international forum Fort Ross in San Francisco. 
When it comes to the Fort Ross dialogue, I think that this is an important and necessary event. This event gives an opportunity for Russian and American colleagues to just sit down together and talk, to think about the world we are living in. The main question is what to do in order to imporve Russian-US relations, Antonov said. 
It is just not normal that we have almost no communication channels now. There are contacts between presidents, ministers [of foreign affairs], between [US National Security Advisor John] Bolton and [Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolay] Patrushev, but there are no contacts at a lower level, he noted. 
We reminded our colleagues about the proposals put forward by Vladimir Putin at a press conference with [US President] Donald Trump. I can tell you that here, in California, not many people know about it. I took advantage of my visit to California, while meeting with students, political analysts, with businessmen and politicians, to explain this positive program of restoring ties between the two countries, Antonov said. 
At the forum, interesting conversations were held about at least two projects - in particular, on setting up a joint committee, comission, council consisting of 'business captains' who could get together and think about ways to find concrete projects of economic cooperation in the existing gaps, the Russian ambassador said. Colleagues also supported Vladimir Putin's idea about creating a bilateral Russian-US commission at the level of former political analysts, former diplomats, [former] ambassadors, former defense ministers, former generals, who could get together and think about possible projects in bilateral relations, who could help get the relations out of a crisis situation, he added. It would be great if that would start to develop in California, Antonov said. 
Moscow police press charges of battery and hooliganism against footballers Mamaev, Kokorin 
MOSCOW, October 18. /TASS/. Moscow police have pressed charges of battery and hooliganism in regard to two Russian football players, Alexander Kokorin and Pavel Mamaev, a police source told TASS. 
The source said that Kokorin and Mamaev as well as two other suspects have been charged with battery and hooliganism following their misbehavior earlier in the month in the Russian capital. 
On October 8, these individuals were the perpetrators of the two assaults in downtown Moscow. The first incident took place at around 8:30 a.m. Moscow time, when several men attacked a driver of a Mercedes near the Peking Hotel in Moscow. 
They beat the man up, in addition to breaking one of the vehicle’s windows and damaging one of the car’s doors, which belongs to Russian TV presenter Olga Ushakova. After that, the gang stopped in at a cafe on Bolshaya Nikitskaya Street, where they proceeded to beat up a director of one of the Russian trade ministry’s departments, Denis Pak. 
Both footballers assaulted the man hitting him over the head with a chair and then punching him in the face, inflicting multiple injuries. Sergey Gaisin, general director of the Russian State Research Centre NAMI, tried to calm the rowdy perpetrators down but was hit in his face. 
The Moscow police have launched three criminal investigations into the matter, two of which are based on Article 116 of the Russian Criminal Code (Battery) with the other was launched directly against Kokorin and Mamaev based on the second part of Article 213 of the Russian Criminal Code (Conspiracy to commit hooliganism). 
Moscow’s Tverskoy District Court ruled last Thursday to place them in pretrial custody for two months, until December 8. 
This is not the first time that both Russian footballers were involved in public scandals. The most notorious one took place two years ago after the 2016 UEFA Euro Cup tournament in France. Mamaev and Kokorin allegedly shelled out 250,000 euros on champagne while partying in Monaco, just as the European championship was still on, but their national team was knocked out. 
While Kokorin and Mamaev were partying at the ritzy Twiga club, they ordered some 500 bottles of Armand de Brignac champagne costing 500 euros each. According to eyewitnesses, the champagne was being served while the Russian national anthem was playing and the party was accompanied by a fireworks display. 
The incident with Kokorin and Mamaev sparked a public outcry, especially following the national team’s poor performance in June at the 2016 UEFA Euro Cup in France, and both players later apologized for their behavior vowing that it would never happen again. 
Putin endorses tit-for-tat measures against Ukraine’s anti-Russian sanctions 
The decree notes that this decision was made in response to Ukraine’s unfriendly actions 
MOSCOW, October 22. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has signed a decree on special economic measures in response to Kiev’s anti-Russian sanctions. The document has been published on the official website of the Kremlin. 
The directive notes that this decision was made in response to Ukraine’s unfriendly actions, which are run counter to international law and imply the introduction of restrictive measures against citizens and legal entities of the Russian Federation, in addition to “protecting national interests. 
The Russian government has been instructed to draw up lists of individuals and legal entities that the special economic measures are targeted at, as well as to determine special economic measures applicable to individuals and legal entities. 
Under the decree, federal agencies, regional and local authorities should be guided by the fact that from the day the decree comes into force, special economic measures are applied to the sanctioned individuals and entities. 
It is noted that the document enters into force on the date of its signing. The decree can be cancelled by a decision of the Russian Federation, should Ukraine abolish its restrictive measures imposed on citizens and legal entities of Russia. 
Over 170 ceasefire violations by Ukrainian troops reported in DPR over past week 
According to DPR's spokesman, a total of 1,669 shells were fired by Ukrainian troops from October 15 to October 21 
DONETSK, October 22. /TASS/. A total of 172 ceasefire violations by Ukrainian forces were reported in the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic (DPR) in the past week, Ruslan Yakubov, DPR’s representative at the Joint Center for Control and Coordination (JCCC), said on Monday. 
In a period from October 15 to 21, as many as 172 ceasefire violations by Ukrainian forces were reported, the Donetsk News Agency quoted him as saying. 
According to Yakubov, a total of 1,669 shells were fired by Ukrainian troops over that period. Twenty-seven residential houses and infrastructure facilities were damaged. 
The back-to-school ceasefire came into force in Donbass from midnight August 29. It was agreed upon by the Trilateral Contact Group on the settlement of the conflict in eastern Ukraine on August 22, ahead of a new academic year. The ceasefire was violated three hours after it came into effect as Ukrainian forces shelled the suburbs of the Gorlovka town. 
Since the start of the conflict in Donbass, the parties have agreed on more than 20 ceasefires. The longest one was reported in 2016 when the ceasefire held for six weeks in a row. However, all the efforts to establish lasting ceasefire have been failing so far. 
Conor McGregor: Russian UFC Champ Nurmagomedov’s win was ‘fair and square’ 
MOSCOW, October 23. /TASS/. Ireland’s mixed martial arts fighter Conor McGregor announced that Russia’s Khabib Nurmagomedov had a fair and square win over him during the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) 229 lightweight belt bout in Las Vegas earlier this month. 
UFC Champion Nurmagomedov defeated Ireland’s Conor McGregor during the UFC 229 tournament in Las Vegas on the night of October 6, defending his lightweight title with a choke in the 4th round of the fight. 
The Irish fighter came up on his Instagram account with a round-to-round analysis of his encounter with Nurmagomedov saying that the Russian fighter seemed weaker and always tried to take him to the ground instead of stand up spars. 
I believe from a sport standpoint, round 1 was his, McGregor said. Round 2 he is running away around the cage before being blessed with a right hand that changed the course of the round, and the fight. It was a nice shot. 
After the worst round [Round 3] of my fighting career, I come back and win this round, he said. Again walking forward, walking him down, and willing to engage. 
Round 4 - My recovery was not where it could have been here. That is my fault, McGregor stated. I work to regain position and end up upright, with my back to the fence. A stable position. However, I made a critical error of abandoning my over hook at this crucial time, exposing the back, and I end up beaten fair and square. 
McGregor also stated that It was a great fight and it was my pleasure, adding that I will be back with my confidence high. Fully prepared. 
The victory over McGregor was the 11th in Nurmagomedov’s career in the UFC. The Russian defeated his opponents in all of his 27 fights. The 30-year-old Nurmagomedov, hailing from Russia’s North Caucasus Region of Dagestan, was the first Russian to win the UFC champion title during the fight against his US opponent Al Iaquinta this April. 
On April 8, Nurmagomedov defeated his US opponent Al Iaquinta in a five-round fight for the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC) lightweight belt in New York. 
Nurmagomedov became the first Russian to be awarded the UFC champion title. The 29-year-old Russian clinched the 26th victory in his career with no defeats, while Al Iaquinta suffered his fourth defeat with 13 victories and one draw. 
President of Honor, talks Fearless Technology, Infinite Innovations with entrepreneurs 
SHANGHAI, Oct. 24, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- George Zhao, President of Honor, delivered his first TEDx talk at Caohejing Park, Shanghai today where he shared his vision for perfection and technological innovation. Zhao also revealed how Honor received global success by becoming the top smartphone e-brand in China for four consecutive years. 
At TEDx CaohejingParkSalon Zhao explained to a young audience of budding entrepreneurs that in 2015, I travelled back to my homeland to lead Honor. Although I only had B2B experience back then, I knew that I only had one option -- to make Honor succeed. Over the past few years, in a 'Fearless Technology, Infinite Innovations' environment, Honor never ceases to enhance its technology or product quality and raise its core competitiveness. Innovation, quality and service have always been and always will be our top priorities. By continuously exploring these three areas, our upcoming 'Honor Magic 2', will be officially unveiled next week in Beijing and is bound to take smartphones to a whole new level. We believe that a company can only rise above the rest and stay relevant by delivering the best product with ultimate user experience. 
As the fastest-growing mobile phone brand, Honor never adopts an opportunistic approach in devising strategies. In 2015, Honor insisted on pooling their resources to deliver the best product and service quality, instead of relying on the 'spur-of-the-moment'. In 2016, when the global smartphone market suffered a steep decline, Honor persevered and was resolute in its vision. In 2017, when the industry was skeptical about their prospects, Honor insisted that its enterprises keep their vision focused on the future and boost momentum. In 2018, despite the smartphone market in China hitting a severe slump, Honor sailed through the storm. Not only did they record positive sales growth, they also remained China's top smartphone e-brand for the year, he added. 
As a leading smartphone e-brand, Honor encourages young people to achieve their life dreams every day and always stay true to themselves, with a commitment to innovation that changes people's lives. The aim of today's TEDx talk was to share this passion and confidence with young people directly, helping them to fulfill their aspirations and change the world. 
By empowering human beings to foresee the future, AI has always been a core strategic technology for Honor. Long before the industry came to realize the importance of AI, Honor had already invested heavily in AI R&D and built an AI ecosystem. 
Zhao started his career with Huawei in 1998, working with them for 20 years in China and around the world. This experience gave him a great insight into how we use technology in our everyday lives and how it can change our lives for the better. As the President of Honor, he is responsible for the overall business management and growth of the Honor brand. 
TEDx is a programme offering local and self-organized events that bring people together to share TED-like experiences in the spirit of spreading worthwhile ideas. Every year, TEDx CaohejingParkSalon in Shanghai invites diverse and experienced leaders to speak and exchange ideas with young entrepreneurs. 
# # # 
About Honor 
Honor is a leading smartphone e-brand. In line with its slogan, For the Brave, the brand was created to meet the needs of digital natives through internet-optimized products that offer superior user experiences, inspire action, foster creativity and empower the young to achieve their dreams. In doing this, Honor has set itself apart by showcasing its own bravery to do things differently and to take the steps needed to usher in the latest technologies and innovations for its customers. 
Efforts to resolve issues such as North Korea must not be delayed, says Russian PM 
MOSCOW, October 26. /TASS/. Moscow welcomes an easing of tensions on the Korean Peninsula, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said, addressing the general assembly of the International Conference of Asian Political Parties. He added that efforts to resolve issues such as North Korea must not be delayed. 
There are things that must not be delayed, which include efforts to find peaceful diplomatic solutions to various issues and conflicts, Medvedev said. In this connection, we welcome dialogue between North and South Korea, who have significantly eased tensions in bilateral relations in the past several months, the Russian prime minister stressed, adding that Moscow had been facilitating all steps towards peace and cooperation contained in the relevant roadmap. 
Medvedev also touched upon ways to resolve the poverty issue, which had been discussed at the forum. Clearly, no country is capable of defeating poverty on its own, there is a need to pool the entire international community’s resources, he said, noting that as far as the poverty issue was concerned, Russia was guided by the United Nations’ documents and the Sustainable Development Goals outlined in them. Medvedev pointed out that our country has made quite an important contribution to these processes. In this regard, he mentioned that Russia provided significant financing for the development of the Asian region. 
The Russian prime minister also said that energy, trade and infrastructure projects were particularly important for the fight against poverty. 
Lavrov tells Syrian opposition Russia ready to help establish intra-Syrian dialogue 
The sides exchanged views on the current situation in and around Syria with a focus on the necessity of the soonest political resolution of the Syrian crisis 
MOSCOW, October 26. /TASS/. Russia is prepared to help establish an inclusive intra-Syrian dialogue on the basis of the resolutions of the Syrian National Dialogue Congress in Sochi and United Nations Security Council Resolution 2254, the Russian foreign ministry said on Friday after Minister Sergey Lavrov’s meeting with a delegation of Syria’s opposition Negotiation Commission (SNC) led by its president, Nasr al-Hariri. 
The sides exchanged views on the current situation in and around Syria with a focus on the necessity of the soonest political resolution of the Syrian crisis, the ministry said. The Russian side reiterated its commitment to Syria’s sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and its determination to help establish an efficient inclusive intra-Syrian dialogue on the basis of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2254 and resolutions of the Syrian National Dialogue Congress in Sochi.. 
Heavy rains drench Russia’s southern Krasnodar region, six dead 
MOSCOW, October 26. /TASS/. The death toll from heavy rains and flooding in the Russian southern Krasnodar Region has climbed to six, two people are reported missing, while 13 are hospitalized with injuries. 
The region spares no effort in restoring damaged infrastructure. People evacuated from flooded areas are provided with meals and daily necessities and are accommodated at temporary shelters and hotels. Passengers of delayed trains get to their destinations by plane and coach. In spite of a favorable forecast, problems might emerge in other areas of the Krasnodar Region. 
Heavy rains caused flooding in about 30 towns and villages of the Krasnodar Region. Motorways and railways are damaged, while several bridges have been washed away by heavy rains. Railway communication is suspended. 
Power and water supplies have been irregular in recent days. Floods cut off drinking water supplies to Tuapse, a resort city with the population of 60,000 people. More than 1,800 houses - where 5,300 people live - have been partially flooded. 
Six people were reported dead on Friday, whereas earlier the death toll had been two in the Tuapse district. According to the regional emergencies minister Sergey Kapustin, four more bodies were recovered during search and rescue operations in the Aphseron district. 
Two more people are listed missing. Among them is a man who was washed away by a torrent of water in the village of Tsypka, according to his friend. In Tuapse, a strong torrent pushed a 67-year-old woman into a gutter and she was carried away by the water. 
The Investigative Committee opened criminal cases to look into the deaths. 
The regional health ministry said that 39 adults and eleven children needed medical services. Of them, 13 were admitted to hospitals. Nine psychologists and medical teams are on duty in the emergency area. Ambulances are placed on alert round-the-clock. Locals are being vaccinated against intestinal infections. 
Round-the-clock work 
People, who had been earlier evacuated from their flooded villages, have started to return to their homes after water receded. 
Emergency teams are carrying out repair works across the region. They are planning to resume power supplies to affected areas by Saturday night. In Tuapse, water and gas supplies have been already resumed. Sochi, where apartment houses and three hospitals were soaked with water, coped with the aftermath of the natural disaster. Works to resume road traffic in Sochi are in full swing, according to Mayor Anatoly Pakhomov. 
A bridge over the Makopse River was damaged by floods, so road traffic from and towards Sochi was disrupted. Road workers are doing their best to rebuild the bridge. The authorities promise to open the highway by Saturday morning. 
New threats 
By Friday night, reports came that rising rivers might flood homes in the Belorechensk district of the Krasnodar region. 
The regional emergency service has said that due to a dangerous level of water in the Pshish River in the Belorechensk district and floods moving down the river, the water is expected to be rising until late hours of October 27. The river might rise above dangerous levels in some areas of the Belorechensk district of the Krasnodar Region. 
Besides, the Laba River might overtop its banks, according to Andrey Bondar, head of the Krasnodar regional center for hydrometeorology. 
Weather forecasts say that rains will not stop slamming southeast areas in the Krasnodar Region until Sunday. 
Putin, Macron support promotion of political process in Syria 
The sides focused on the issues of the Syrian settlement during a telephone conversation initiated by the French side on Saturday 
MOSCOW, October 27. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin and French President Emmanuel Macron have expressed support for joint efforts to promote a political process in Syria, including the issues of establishing and launching a constitutional committee. The sides focused on the issues of the Syrian settlement during a telephone conversation initiated by the French side on Saturday. 
In the run-up to the quadrilateral Russia-Turkey-France-Germany summit kicking off in Istanbul today, the main focus has been put on the issues of the Syrian settlement. Several issues on the Istanbul meeting’s agenda have been discussed. The necessity to intensify joint efforts on promotion of a political process in Syria, including the issues of establishing and launching a constitutional committee, have been emphasized, the Kremlin press service said. 
Clearing of South Russia streets, houses after floods to be over on October 29 
According to forecasts, weather in the region will improve on Sunday, and rains will eventually cease 
KRASNODAR, October 28. /TASS/. The governor of southern Russia’s Krasnodar Region, Veniamin Kondratyev, has tasked regional services with clearing the aftermath of floods from all affected streets and houses in the region by late Monday. 
According to Tuapse district head Anatoly Rusin, the governor also said that other damage done by the disaster should be fixed within the shortest timeframe possible. 
Meanwhile, the region’s emergencies service department said that over 1,700 people are currently involved in the post-disaster recovery effort in the Krasnodar region. 
In the past 24 hours, rescuers pumped water from 97 homes and took out almost 600 tonnes of debris and garbage. They also delivered 48 tonnes of potable water and 7,000 food sets to those in need. 
According to forecasts, weather in the region will improve on Sunday, and rains will eventually cease. 
The head of the Kransodar Region hydrometeorology center, Andrei Bondar, said no new floods are expected in the coming days. 
Although rivers are still swollen, we expect no serious consequences, he said. 
According to the Russian energy ministry’s situation analysis center, power supplies are still disrupted to eight settlements in the Tuapse and Apsheron districts and in the Lazarevsky district of Sochi, with the total population of about 3,300 people. 
Almost 50 teams of workers are trying to restore power lines, but their task is complicated by damaged roads. 
Heavy rains in the Krasnodar Region inundated about 30 communities, damaged highways and railroads, detained trains and destroyed several bridges and approaches to them earlier this week. Electric and gas supply interruptions have been reported, and Tuapse, a city with a population of 60,000, is still without water. About 2,400 houses, home to more than 5,300 people, were flooded. According to the data provided by local authorities, the death toll stands at six. A total of 12 people were hospitalized, while 130 received out-patient treatment. An state of emergency was declared in the region. 
Russia calls on US to allow visits to closed diplomatic property facilities - Lavrov 
Both sides should also stop the practice of expelling diplomats and ensure a speedy procedure of issuing visas for diplomats and solve the diplomatic property issue, he noted 
MOSCOW, October 28. /TASS/. Moscow suggests that both Russian and US diplomats should be allowed to visit diplomatic property facilities, which have been earlier closed, and the ball is in Washington’s court, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in an interview with the program Moscow. Kremlin. Putin on Rossiya 1 TV channel. 
We have told US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo about this several times, and now I repeated this to [US National Security Adviser] John Bolton that as elementary steps it is necessary to restore convenient conditions for the diplomats’ work, Lavrov said. Both sides should also stop the practice of expelling diplomats and ensure a speedy procedure of issuing visas for diplomats and solve the diplomatic property issue, he noted. 
For a start, our diplomats in the US and US diplomats here should be allowed to visit those facilities, which were under arrest and expropriated, no matter how this is called, the foreign minister said. They will think about this, we made the proposal, and the ball is in their court. 
On September 2, 2017, the United States’ authorities closed Russia’s consulate general in San Francisco, the trade mission in Washington and its rented office in New York. The former two facilities are Russia’s government property and enjoy diplomatic immunity. Moscow described the seizure of Russian diplomatic property as an openly hostile act and called on the United States to immediately return these facilities. 
On March 26, 2018, Washington closed Russia’s consulate general in Seattle (rented premises) and the consul general’s residence (Russia’s property). 
Russian military repel attacks of ‘militants’ in drills in Tajikistan 
The military district’s press service explained that new forms and methods of warfare were used during those drills 
MOSCOW, October 29. /TASS/. Servicemen from Russian military base 201 located in Tajikistan have repelled attacks conducted by militants at the Lyaur Range at the final stage of a battalion tactical exercise, the Central Military District press service told TASS on Monday. 
According to the drills, the illegal armed groups wanted to seize Russia’s important military installations located on the territory of the Republic of Tajikistan. In a short clash, the Russian servicemen repelled the attack on a military facility and embarked on search operations. The motorized infantry’s actions were supported by a tank company with T-72s and artillery detachments with 2S1 Gvozdika self-propelled artillery platforms, the press service noted. 
The military district’s press service explained that new forms and methods of warfare were used in these drills. Mostly the repulse of attacks by ‘militants’ with participation of ‘suicide bombers’ and ‘jihad vehicles,’ as well as the destruction of unmanned aerial vehicles of the enemy, including strike ones, was trained, the press service noted. 
About 500 Russian servicemen had been activated for the exercise, according to earlier reports. 
Russian energy ministry prepares draft plan on taking account of oil fields 
Russia’s Energy Ministry has prepared a draft roadmap on taking account of oil fields for encouraging hard-to-recover oil reserves production 
ST. PETERSBURG, October 29. /TASS/. Russia’s Energy Ministry has prepared a draft roadmap on taking account of oil fields for encouraging hard-to-recover oil reserves production, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak said on Monday. 
The Energy Ministry had to prepare a draft roadmap (on taking account of oil reserves - TASS) by November 1. As of today, the draft roadmap has been prepared. A confirmed common methodology with the Natural Resources Ministry on taking account of reserves should be the first step to take in that direction, Kozak said. 
Further on, mechanisms of differentiated burden and incentives for oil producers should be developed based on the inventory count. So far the situation is favorable, though we see that production volumes may go down in coming years if no urgent measures are assumed, he said. 
Earlier Kozak said that the government planned to take account of oil fields, develop their yield evaluation and revise the existing incentives for oil fields. The government may additionally stimulate tight oil production for the peak output of the fields. 
Russian diplomat warns UN of planned chemical attack provocation in Idlib 
A Russian diplomat has informed the UN about a new planned provocation involving chemical weapons in Syria’s Idlib 
UN, October 29. /TASS/. Russia’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the UN Vladimir Safronkov informed the UN about a new planned provocation involving chemical weapons in Syria’s Idlib during a session of the UN Security Council. 
More reports are appearing about suspicious movements of the Al-Nusra Front (outlawed in Russia - TASS) and the White Helmets with poisonous substances, he said during Monday’s session on the humanitarian situation in Syria. 
Russian diplomats have repeatedly made warnings about planned provocations with the alleged use of chemical weapons against civilians plotted by the White Helmets in order to blame the Syrian government for said attacks and justify Western airstrikes on Syria. 
Agreements on Idlib 
Russian-Turkish agreements on de-escalation in Idlib were a temporary measure and in no way meant that anti-terrorism efforts in Syria should be stopped, he added. 
It is worth noting that the de-escalation agreements were initially seen as a temporary measure and the task of eliminating terrorists’ presence in Syria is still on the agenda, he said at a meeting of the United Nations Security Council. In case radical elements continue their provocations, Russia reserves the right to support the Syrian government’s efficient efforts to exterminate the nest of terrorism. 
The September 17 talks between the Russian and Turkish Presidents, Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, in Russia’s Sochi yielded and agreement to establish a demilitarized zone in Syria’s Idlib, along the contact line between government troops and the opposition. All heavy weapons are to be withdrawn from this zone. Control in this zone will be exercised by mobile patrol groups of Turkish troops and unites of Russian military police. 
Istanbul summit on Syria 
The joint statement of the Russian, German, French and Turkish leaders passed after their summit on Syria in Istanbul will be circulated among United Nations Security Council members as an official document. 
In response to numerous questions, I want to inform the Security Council members that the joint statement of the participants in the four-lateral summit in Istanbul will be circulated as an official document. You will find all the answers there, he said. 
Siberian scientists’ model to help create air conditioner for space station 
The Siberian Federal University has been working on it along with the Computer Modelling Institute of the Siberian branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences 
MOSCOW, October 30. /TASS/. Researchers of the Siberian Federal University based in Krasnoyarsk have created a mathematical model showing how gravitation changes liquid evaporation. These calculations can help develop systems of liquid cooling aboard the space station and in new-generation satellites, the University’s press office told TASS on Tuesday. 
The staffers of the Siberian Federal University have presented jointly with their colleagues from the Computer Modelling Institute of the Siberian branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences their calculations that describe the structure of stream flows and evaporation processes in the two-layered ‘liquid-vapor’ system, the press office said in a statement. 
The results will be useful in modifying fluid cooling systems of various electronic micro-and mini-devices that are used, among other things, on board the space station and in new-generation satellites, the statement says. 
As the press office explained, the scientists have created a mathematical model, which describes convection processes (where substance and energy flows are transferred by streams). Such processes depend on external and internal conditions: the properties of the media (the fluid and ambient gas or the steam gas mixture), the system’s temperature mode, its geometry (for example, the thickness of the channel, in which the liquid and the vapor are located) and the gravitation impact. The researchers focused on describing the effect of the latter two factors. 
It turned out that the system where the upper layers are colder than the lower strata is unstable because a convection movement emerges in the gravitational field in this medium: the cold fluid sinks while the hot liquid rises. As the Siberian scientists say, this movement can be ‘governed, for example, by altering the thickness of the liquid’s layer. Thus, the convection process can be suppressed by reducing the height of the fluid’s layer. 
Doctor of Physical and Mathematical Sciences, Professor of the Siberian Federal University, Staffer of the Computer Modelling Institute of the Siberian branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences Viktoria Bekezhanova, who is one of the research’s authors, explained that the study of convection processes is important for developments in the sphere of thermal physics, the chemical industry, materials science and bio-medicine. 
Serbian president calls for nation’s unity on Kosovo problem 
Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has called for unity of the Serbian people on the Kosovo problem 
BELGRADE, October 30. /TASS/. Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic has called for unity of the Serbian people on the Kosovo problem. 
The Albanians are totally consolidated, all their parties are consolidated. I don’t mean that all parties in Serbia must consolidate but national unity is needed. We need people’s strength now more than ever before and we will spare no effort to defend the interests of the Serbian people, he said on Tuesday at a cabinet meeting that was attended by representatives from Kosovo and Metohija. 
He said that he had information that Kosovans were plotting seizure of a part of the Serbian electricity grid in the south of the country. They [Kosovans] claim that our electricity grid is hampering free movement of electricity thus forcing them to steal electricity. After that, they plan to accuse us of being unable to control the grid, oust our company and substitute it for Albania’s KOSTT, Vucic said. 
Apart from that, the Serbian leader noted that in late November Albania will celebrate its Flag Day and plans to time the establishment of a Kosovo army to that holiday, despite the fact that it runs counter to United Nations Resolution 1244. Moreover, Interpol is expected to discuss Kosovo’s application for joining that organization. 
But despite all that, Belgrade will continue to invest in Serbian-populated areas in Kosovo, Vucic pledged. In his words, it is planned to spend 50 million euro on the construction of a clinical center in Kosovska Mitrovica and a hospital in Gracanica. It is also planned to invest in the agrarian and tourism sectors, in infrastructure, water supplies systems and education, the Serbian president said. 
Serbia’s Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija unilaterally proclaimed independence in February 2008, which was recognized by the United Nations Court of Justice in 2010. By now, according to Belgrade, Kosovo has been recognized by 105 world nations, while Pristina says there are 117 such countries. More than 60 countries, including Russia, China, India, Israel, Greece and Spain, are categorically against recognizing Kosovo’s independence. 
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 has it that Kosovo and Metohija are part of Serbia. The document provided for the establishment of international civil presence in Kosovo - the United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo (UNMIK) - to establish an interim administration for Kosovo that was granted a broad autonomy. The UNMIK enjoyed legislative and executive authority and regulated Kosovo’s judicial system. After Kosovo proclaimed its independence on February 17, 2008, the mission focused on security and human rights issues. 
In the recent months, Belgrade and Pristina have been negotiating a compromise solution based on adjustments of the border and exchanges of territories. The United States supports this idea and insists on a final agreement committing to paper adjustments of the border between Serbia and the unrecognized republic. Meanwhile, German Chancellor Angela Merkel spoke against any border changes in the Balkans and noted that all the countries of that region have chances to be admitted to the European Union. 
Russian aircraft carrier’s damage after floating dock sank 'insignificant' 
The PD-50 floating dock sank overnight to October 30 in Murmansk, northwest Russia, during the planned exit of the heavy aircraft-carrying cruiser Admiral Kuznetsov 
MOSCOW, October 31. /TASS/. The damage to Russia’s Admiral Kuznetsov aircraft carrier, when a floating dock where the vessel had been undergoing modernization accidentally sank, is considered as insignificant, Head of the United Shipbuilding Corporation Alexei Rakhmanov said on Wednesday. 
There is no financial assessment, we look at the damage - there is nothing terrible there, and I think we will deal with it ourselves. As soon as we make the assessment, I will inform you. This won’t be a big sum, Rakhmanov said. There is nothing scary about this damage, he noted. 
The PD-50 floating dock sank overnight to October 30 in Murmansk, northwest Russia, during the planned exit of the heavy aircraft-carrying cruiser Admiral Kuznetsov, the Russian Navy’s only aircraft carrier. According to preliminary information, the warship itself had its take-off deck damaged by the fallen crane and is now at the 35th Ship Repair Plant. Four people were injured, two of them are in hospitals and another one is missing. 
The Admiral Kuznetsov’s next dock inspection needs to be carried out in June 2019, he said. The key issue is now whether the PD-50 floating dock will be taken to the surface and restored. I can’t say that we are in a deadlock situation, we always have Plan B and some other options, Rakhmanov said. 
According to him, the sunken dock is the most efficient out of all current options. 
The PD-50 is one of the largest floating docks in the world and the biggest floating dock in Russia. It was built in Sweden in 1980 under the order of the Soviet Navy. It is 330 meters long, 67 meters wide and can carry up to 80,000 tonnes. Its area is 22.1 square km, which is a slightly less than Moscow’s Red Square. 
Saudi journalist strangled as he entered consulate, Turkish authorities say 
On October 20, Saudi Arabia’s authorities announced that Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi died after a conflict in the consulate general 
ANKARA, October 31. /TASS/. Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi was strangled when he entered the Saudi consulate in Istanbul, and then his body was dismembered and disposed, the Turkish city’s prosecutor-general’s office said on Wednesday. 
Khashoggi fell the victim of a planned murder, he was strangled immediately after entering the consulate in Saudi Arabia. After the killing his body was dismembered and disposed, the statement said. 
According to the Turkish side, the talks between the prosecutors of Turkey and Saudi Arabia on investigating Khashoggi’s murder produced no results. 
Riyadh has invited the Turkish delegation led by Istanbul’s Prosecutor-General Irfan Fidan to visit the Kingdom as part of the murder investigation. 
Saudi journalist Jamal Khashoggi, known for his criticism of Saudi Arabia's current policy, left his home country and moved to the United States in 2017. The journalist wrote articles for The Washington Post, analyzing the situation in Saudi Arabia and the country's foreign policy, and criticizing Riyadh. 
The journalist arrived in the consulate general of Saudi Arabia in Istanbul on October 2 to complete paperwork to marry a Turkish citizen and has not been in contact since then. 
On October 20, Saudi Arabia’s authorities announced that the journalist died after a conflict in the consulate general. Saudi Arabia's Public Prosecutor Saud Al-Moajab declared that 18 Saudi nationals had been under investigation, without revealing their names. 
The world community has condemned the crime, calling on Riyadh to carry out a transparent investigation, and Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan described Khashoggi’s murder as a thoroughly planned crime. 
Kiev troops in Donbass have foreign-made armaments — diplomat citing OSCE 
What for were these armaments, as well as the earlier spotted Buk anti-aircraft missile system dispatched to Donbass? a Russian diplomat asked 
VIENNA, November 1. /TASS/. Observers from the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission (SMM) have reported foreign-made weapons in the inventory of Kiev troops in Donbass, in particular a US-made mobile radar system, Russia’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the OSCE, Dmitry Balakin, told a session of the European security agency’s Permanent Council in Vienna on Thursday. 
Kiev continues pulling in armaments to the contact line. Over the past week, the SMM has spotted more than 20 units of Ukrainian Armed Forces’ military hardware in violation of the Package of Measures, Balakin said. Howitzers and electronic warfare systems are redeployed via the Rubezhnoye railway station, he said. 
Near Severodonetsk, observers have spotted foreign-made armaments - AN/TPQ-36 Firefinder Weapon Locating System, a mobile radar system produced in the US, the diplomat said. What for were these armaments, as well as the earlier spotted Buk anti-aircraft missile system dispatched to Donbass? he asked. 
The Trilateral Contact Group on Ukraine comprising senior representatives from Russia, Ukraine and the European security watchdog OSCE on February 12, 2015, signed a 13-point Package of Measures to fulfil the September 2014 Minsk agreements. The package was agreed with the leaders of the Normandy Four, namely Russia, Germany, France and Ukraine. 
The Package of Measures, known as Minsk-2, envisaged a ceasefire between Ukrainian government forces and people’s militias in the self-proclaimed republics in Donetsk and Lugansk starting from February 15 and subsequent withdrawal of heavy weapons from the line of engagement. The deal also laid out a roadmap for a lasting settlement in Ukraine, including prisoner exchange in the all-for-all format, local elections and constitutional reform to give more autonomy to the war-torn eastern regions. 
Russia urges OSCE to report on damage and casualties in Donbass — diplomat 
The Ukrainian Armed Forces have intensified the shelling of Donbass, the diplomat said 
VIENNA, November 1. /TASS/. Russia urges the OSCE Special Monitoring Mission in Ukraine to prepare a report about shelling, destruction and casualties in Donbass since the start of the conflict in 2014, Russia’s Deputy Permanent Representative to the OSCE, Dmitry Balakin, told a session of the European security agency’s Permanent Council in Vienna on Thursday. 
He stated that the Ukrainian Armed Forces have intensified the shelling of Donbass. According to the SMM, an attack was conducted on the residential neighborhood Trudovskiye on the outskirts of Donetsk from the western and southwestern directions on October 26, in which a two-story house was damaged, he said, citing one of the shelling episodes. 
We once again urge the SMM to prepare a spotlight presentation on shelling episodes, destruction and causalities in Donbass since the start of the conflict, Balakin stressed. 
He also said the Ukrainian Armed Forces obstruct the disengagement of forces in Stanitsa Luganskaya. 
The Ukrainian Armed Forces are blocking the disengagement of forces in Stanitsa Luganskaya, although the SMM has reported the necessary for that seven-day ceasefire more than 55 times, he said. 
Ukrainian troops have occupied the disengagement sections in Zolotoye and Petrovskoye in violation of the Contact Group’s Framework Decision of September 21, 2016 and are actively strengthening their positions there - from building new trenches to beefing up Ukrainian Armed Forces’ positions with manpower and hardware. All this has been repeatedly confirmed in reports of the SMM, Balakin said. 
The Russian diplomat said that additional measures on de-escalation are needed for ensuring a stable ceasefire, first of all a ban on shelling of settlements, making public ceasefire orders. Representatives from the [self-proclaimed] Donetsk and Lugansk people’s republics have done this. While the Kiev authorities are refusing. Do the Kiev military have such orders at all? Balakin asked. 
After Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich was ousted in a coup in February 2014, mass protests began in Crimea and eastern Ukraine, largely populated by Russian-speaking people. As a response, the Kiev authorities launched a military operation in Donbass in April 2014. 
Russia marks 80 years since female crew honored for record nonstop cross-country mission 
Get to know Russia's most famous female pilots 
Polina Osipenko, Valentina Grizodubova and Marina Raskova 
MOSCOW, November 2. /TASS/. Eighty years ago today, on November 2, 1938 the Soviet Union’s Central Executive Committee (abbreviated as TsIK in Russian - the country’s supreme legislative and governing body at that time) for the first time awarded the title of the Hero of the Soviet Union to three women nominees. The country’s highest decoration went to air pilots Valentina Grizodubova, 27, the commander of the Antonov ANT-37 twin-engine plane Rodina (Russian for Motherland), Polina Osipenko, 30, the co-pilot and Marina Raskova, 27, the navigator for setting an international women’s record for a straight-line non-stop distance flight. 
On September 24, 1938, a plane called The Rodina with its female crew of three took off from an airfield in Shchyolkovo, in the suburbs of Moscow, to set off towards the Far East. 
As Valentina Grizodubova would recall later, 50 kilometers away from Moscow, The Rodina entered thick clouds and the crew had no chance to see the Earth’s surface until the moment of landing thousands of kilometers away. At a certain point, the plane started to accumulate ice. When navigator Raskova tried to clear the cockpit’s windshield of hoarfrost, the flight maps flew away with a gust of wind. To get out of the clouds the crew had to climb to an altitude of 7,450 meters and put on the oxygen masks. Later on, the radio equipment went dead and all contact with the ground stations was lost. On September 25, after flying over Lake Baikal, Raskova managed to approximately determine the plane’s location using the stars and map out the direction towards Nikolayevsk-on-Amur. At dawn, the clouds dispersed, opening up a view of the Tugur Bay of the Sea of Okhotsk, and eventually the flight’s destination was reached. 
By that time, the plane had already used up the 5.5 tonnes of fuel taken on board in Moscow. Grizodubova made the tough decision to make an emergency gear-up landing. Before doing that, though, she ordered Raskova to jump out of the plane with a parachute, because the chances the navigator, seated in the front cabin, would survive a crash landing looked slim. The Rodina, with both of its engines dead, landed in a swamp in the upper reaches of the Amgun River. All three crewmembers remained unhurt. Raskova landed far away from The Rodina and spent several days wandering around the marshland trying to find her way. 
The moment that radio contact was lost, a massive search operation was launched over a vast swath of territory from Lake Baikal to the Sea of Okhotsk. Nine days later, on October 3, 1938, the women pilots were spotted from the air. 
On October 4, two planes were dispatched to the site of The Rodina’s emergency landing - a TB-3RN and a Douglas DC-3 - but they collided in midair, with the women pilots on the ground helplessly watching the tragedy, which resulted in 15 deaths. Marina Raskova reached The Rodina later on the same day. On October 12, the female aircrew was taken to the city of Komsomolsk by motorboats, where they boarded a train back to Moscow. An enthusiastic red-carpet reception at a railway station in the center of Moscow followed. 
During the 26 hours and 29 minutes that the aircraft was airborne, the Antonov ANT-37 covered 6,450 kilometers (5,908 kilometers straight from point A to point B). The international aviation federation (Federation Aeronautique Internationale - FAI) officially certified the accomplishment as an international record for a straight-line distance flight. 
Fates of the female pilots 
Valentina Grizodubova: During World War II, she was the commander of the 101st Long-Range Aviation Regiment of Li-2 military transport planes. She flew more than 200 sorties. In 1963-1972, she led the research and flight test center under the Soviet Union’s Radio Industry Ministry. She passed away in Moscow on April 28, 1993 at 82 years of age. 
Polina Osipenko: Her plane crashed during a blind flying experiment, resulting in her death on May 11, 1939. 
Marina Raskova: During World War II, she was the commander of an air group responsible for forming female air regiments. On January 4, 1943 while flying to the Stalingrad front, she perished in an air crash. 
Anti-Russian smear campaign launched under pretext of violations in Chechnya — ministry 
These actions are conditioned by the aim of expanding the anti-Russian campaign ahead of the OSCE Ministerial Council in Milan on December 6-7, the Russian Foreign Ministry said 
MOSCOW, November 2. /TASS/. Under the pretext of human rights violations in the Russian Caucasus republic of Chechnya, several countries are trying to launch a campgain against Russia ahead of the meeting of foreign ministers of OSCE member countries scheduled for December 6-7 in Milan, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a commentary distributed on Friday. 
The foreign ministry reminded that 16 member countries of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), including the UK, Germany, France and the US, earlier decided to launch the so-called Moscow Mechanism that envisages forming a group of experts tasked with investigating the situation on the site and developing recommendations over alleged human rights violations in Chechnya. 
It is apparent that these actions are conditioned by the aim of expanding the anti-Russian campaign ahead of the OSCE Ministerial Council in Milan on December 6-7. Taking into account these circumstances, we consider the attempts to launch the Vienna and Moscow Mechanisms groundless, the foreign ministry said. 
The ministry noted that when the Russian side asked the initiators of launching these mechanisms to provide some concrete evidence of human rights violations in Chechnya, only links to media reports were provided, and no substantial evidence was presented. We confirm the Russian side's readiness to continue a constructive dialogue on human rights issues, the foreign ministry added. 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier said that media reports about persecution and extrajudicial killings of persons with a different sexual orientation in Chechnya do not find any confirmation. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov earlier noted that the Russian authorities will react strongly if it is confirmed that the rights of sexual minorities are violated in the Chechen Republic. 
Russia to present draft digital cooperation program to China in spring 2019 
That it could be signed at the next meeting of the humanitarian cooperation commission in the summer, Russian Deputy Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Alexei Volin said 
SHANGHAI, November 4. /TASS/. Russia plans to present a draft digital cooperation program to the Chinese side in the spring of 2019, Deputy Minister of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media Alexei Volin said at a Russian-Chinese media forum in Shanghai on Sunday. 
The Russian side will start working at the digital cooperation program so that the draft will be submitted to the Chinese side in the spring, and that it could be signed at the next meeting of the humanitarian cooperation commission in the summer, he said. 
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Maxim Akimov unveiled plans to develop a Russian-Chinese media cooperation program in the digital field at the plenary session of the forum earlier on Sunday. He explained that the program initially planned for two years should be aimed at the formation of a common digital environment favorable for the development of the two countries’ media outlets, implementation of joint projects, and strengthening of joint positions on global markets. 
Volin also suggested that China should receive a Russian delegation in the spring of 2019 for discussing the issues of cooperation in the film industry. The Russian side is interested in expanding cooperation in this field, he said, adding that it particularly plans to present new film projects implemented in the Russian Federation to China. 
Volin also said that Moscow is keen to hold the third Russian-Chinese forum of new media that is traditionally organized together with China Daily, in 2019. 
New media cooperation program 
Russia and China are ready to develop a new program of digital cooperation in the media space in 20 areas by the summer of 2019, Alexei Volin said. 
Today the initiative to develop a Russian-Chinese program of digital cooperation in the media space was unveiled, he said, adding that the program is expected to contain up to 20 cooperation areas, and the sides hope to develop it by the summer of 2019. 
According to preliminary estimates, the initiative will include over 100 joint activities, he said. We believe the program may become not a bit smaller driver than the previous years of the Russian-Chinese media, deputy minister emphasized. 
He mentioned joint forums, meetings of representatives of online platforms, consultations and presentations of developed content to each other for distributing in the digital area, media literacy, production of technological equipment and software for online services, consultations and cooperation between TV, radio channels and other traditional media, dealing with young people, as well as issues related to education and training of media experts as the main areas of the future Russian-Chinese program of media cooperation. 
2018 Media Cooperation Forum on Belt and Road was held in Hainan 
HAIKOU, China, Nov. 7, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Recently, the 2018 Media Cooperation Forum on Belt and Road opened in Boao, Hainan, China. 256 guests representing 205 media and institutions from 90 countries and international organizations gathered together to exchange ideas on jointly establishing an alliance for media cooperation and know much more about China's development condition through the visit around Hainan. 
With a theme of Contributions by All and Benefits to All, the forum was hosted by People's Daily and the CPC Hainan Provincial Party Committee and the People's Government of Hainan province. As the host, Liu Cigui, Party chief of Hainan introduced the development of the Hainan Provincial Economic Zone in the past 30 years. He invited the guests to participate in the construction of the Hainan pilot free trade zone and free trade port with Chinese characteristics; and jointly promote economic and trade exchanges and to build an important platform for Belt and Road media cooperation and exchanges. 
During the forum, foreign media guests visited several cities of Hainan. The ecological environment here is really good, said Alejandro Ramos, president of Notimex. He took photos in the Shamei Village of Qionghai City and wanted to know much more about the story and construction experience of this place which he would bring back to his country. 
Mohamed Zahar, president of the Tunisian weekly magazine 'Realites', said that Hainan not only has a beautiful ecological environment and a strong humanistic environment, but also has advanced medical tourism service concepts which have already in line with the advanced regions in the world in many aspects. 
Benkhaled Abdelkrim, a writer and professor from Algeria, member of the Algerian branch of the Union of Arab Journalists and Writers, Friends and Allies of China, said that he has a systematic and comprehensive understanding of Chinese culture, efficient agriculture, economy, urban development and tourism industry through his trip to Hainan. 
DPR envoy slams US appeal to boycott Donbass elections 
Earlier, the US Embassy in Kiev urged residents of eastern Ukraine to boycott the elections of heads of DPR and LPR 
DONETSK, November 8. /TASS/. An appeal from the US Embassy to Ukraine to boycott the elections of the heads and members of People's Councils in the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk people's republics on November 11 raises eyebrows as it comes from the country calling itself a democratic stronghold, DPR envoy to talks of the Contact Group in Minsk, Natalya Nikonorova, said on Thursday. 
Elections is the central institution of democracy, said Nikonorova, acting foreign minister of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People’s Republic. That is why an appeal to boycott them that we hear at the moment from the state that views itself as a democratic stronghold is specifically impressive. Attempts to call on the Russian Federation to somehow influence the upcoming elections also raise eyebrows, she said as quoted by the Donetsk News Agency. 
The envoy said the Western countries were used to meddling in domestic affairs of other states, but not all actors in international relations approved of that dubious principle of the foreign policy. That is why we once again urge Kiev and all its partners to talk directly to representatives from the republics in case they have any questions that concern these territories, she stressed. 
On November 7, the US Embassy in Ukraine urged residents of eastern Ukraine to boycott the elections of heads of the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk People's Republic scheduled for November 11. 
While Ukraine takes positive steps to promote peace, Russia is stoking conflict by staging sham 'elections'. Residents of eastern Ukraine should boycott these 'elections', which are not in line with either the Minsk agreements or Ukrainian law, the US Embassy in Ukraine wrote on its Twitter microblog on Wednesday. 
The announcement of the local elections scheduled for November 11 was condemned by Kiev and described as the violation of Ukrainian laws and of the Minsk Agreements. The West supported Kiev. On October 30, the US, France, the UK, Sweden, the Netherlands and Poland initiated the discussion of the upcoming Donbass election at the UN Security Council session, calling them illegal. At the same time, UN SC members ignored Russia's suggestion to invite representatives of the self-proclaimed republics to the session. 
DPR and LPR stress, however, that holding elections is aimed at preventing power vacuum in the self-proclaimed republics and ensuring security of local residents. The main argument put forward by our 'Western friends' is that the elections contradict the Minsk Agreements. Such argument is baseless, acting DPR head Denis Pushilin said. The Package of Measures on the implementation of the Minsk Agreements envisages coordination between the sides only when it comes to municipal elections. Nothing is said there about electing heads and parliament members. In this sense, we have a solid foundation, he added. 
More than 90 foreign observers from over 20 countries already confirmed monitoring elections in DPR and LPR. 
More young Russians going to classical music events, says renowned pianist Matsuev 
Piano virtuoso and honored artist of Russia Denis Matsuev says a unique phenomenon in the world of culture is occurring in Russia 
NEW-YORK, November 9. /TASS /. A unique phenomenon in the world of culture is occurring in Russia, and a great boost to the classical music audience, piano virtuoso and honored artist of Russia, Denis Matsuev, told TASS ahead of his 12th sole performance at New York’s Carnegie Hall, which is scheduled to take place late on Friday. 
Cultural centers in Russian cities and rural areas are full, people there listen to classical music for two hours and don’t go away. What is now happening in Russia, you won’t find in either the US or in Europe, I mean a complete youthification of the audience, which attends classical music events and it is already a common practice. This is a real breakthrough, which I am talking about, this phenomenon has been occurring over the last 20 years, and it is unique, Matsuev noted. 
He added that the so-called virtual, or online philharmonic orchestras, like the Moscow Philharmonic Society project, in which the grand pianist is involved directly, play a significant role in promoting classical music among young audiences. The Moscow Philharmonic Society broadcasts my performances to a large number of our cities, he explained. Our country is huge, but it is still possible to stream concerts to the most remote areas and they can display stunning video quality and artistic quality, these experts do it perfectly, namely, they convey the atmosphere of the concert turning it into a real performance. 
It is crucial to make people, who live in places, where classical music events are extremely rare, feel this atmosphere because I cannot go everywhere, although I try my best to do that. Of course, streaming a concert cannot substitute for live music perception - it’s like football, I mean, you can either watch it at a stadium or a recorded game , these are very close things, where football and music overlap, the pianist pointed out. But the start is great. The figures say a lot. Virtual philharmonic orchestras are attracting new audience, and this is not some copycat or something bogus, or showbiz and pop, it’s not commercial, superficial and unfair, when (performers) lip-synch deceiving the audience, it is absolutely the real thing. 
Parts of sunken ship found on Kamchatka coast 
The separate items were possibly from the upper deck of the ship, the local government said 
PETROPAVLOVSK-KAMCHATSKY, November 10. /TASS/. Parts of the Anatoly Krashennikov ship that had sunk off Kamchatka coast was found on the shore, the local government said in a statement published on its official website on Saturday. 
The shore was inspected, separate items were found, possibly from the upper deck of the sunken ship, the statement said. 
The search operation for the three missing crewmembers - captain, chief mate and mechanic - brought no results. The helicopter that was searching for the missing crew returned to land after it ran out of fuel. The passing ships will continue the search. 
On Friday, the Anatoly Krashennikov dry cargo ship sunk in the Sea of Okhotsk with 13 people on board. Ten people were saved by a nearby ship. 
Ships sailing in the area close to the incident searched for the sunken ship captain and his two mates, but with no success. The search and rescue operation was continued by helicopters. According to the Russian maritime shipping register, the sunken ship was registered in the Far Eastern city of Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. The ship was transporting building materials and equipment to the settlement of Palana in the north of Kamchatka. 
Boeing 737 makes emergency landing in Norilsk 
When it was approaching to land, a flap extension sensor was activated 
KRASNOYARSK, November 12. /TASS/. The plane Boeing 737-800 operated by NordStar has made an emergency landing at Norilsk Airport, spokeswoman for the West-Siberian Transport Prosecutor’s Office Oksana Gorbunova told TASS on Monday. 
The emergency landing occurred at 06:15 (02:15 Moscow time). The Boeing 737-800 of the NordStar air company was en route from Domodedovo [Moscow] to Norilsk. When it was approaching to land, a flap extension sensor was activated. The landing was carried out well, she said. 
Gorbunova reported that there were 166 adult passengers, 20 children and six crew members onboard the plane. 
The return flight, scheduled for 07:00 (03:00 Moscow time), was deferred for two hours, as the company decided to examine the landed aircraft. The passengers will go to Moscow by a reserve flight. 
The Norilsk transport service is checking the implementation of the legislation on the safety of flights and monitoring the observance of the rights of the passengers from the delayed flight. 
TIENS Group Launches Global Expansion Into New Retail 
TIANJIN, China, Nov. 12, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- Leading healthcare company, TIENS Group, has announced their global expansion into the new retail market with the opening of a new flagship TIENS Experience Store in China. Located in the TIENS International Health Industrial Park, the new store features a combination of online and offline consumer experiences through a technology-enhanced approach to new retail business and marketing. 
PointsWin, Tiens' brand new e-wallet app plays a core role to connect the blockchain-based customer network. Consumers can use the app to make purchases and earn rewards at any business bearing the TIENS banner. These innovations as a circle are enabling a merger of online and offline retail that the Group has sought to harness through a growing international presence. 
TIENS is establishing 110 branches worldwide and the new store will be the icon of the Group's One Body, Multiple Wings strategy globally. This includes developing a diverse, integrated healthcare ecosystem spanning physical retail, e-commerce, TCM and medical facilities, as well as educational, tourism, hotel and lifestyle experiences. 
We have always approached development by considering the world from a global perspective, said TIENS Group Chairman Li Jinyuan. These are especially the regions involved in China's One Belt One Road initiative, he added, noting that a majority of TIENS worldwide branches fall within this zone. 
The flagship store will focus on an experience-driven approach to marketing by offering an immersive environment in which customers can explore and discover original health and beauty products. 
Experience marketing is at the cutting-edge of business development trends. We aim to bring our customers an intuitive experience of meticulous care, attentiveness, and beauty, said Board member and General Manager of E-Commerce, Chelsea Li (Li Yue Qi). The TIENS Experience Store is designed with a calming, aquatic aesthetic that quietly permeates its atmosphere, she continued, adding that each visitor's experience is like a journey of discovery, and we have carefully arranged our products throughout the store for their benefit. 
Through in-depth, immersive customer experiences, this latest development is helping the group transform the concept of brand consumption into a more personalized experience. The TIENS Experience Store's diverse layout is a concrete representation of the 'One Body, Multiple Wings' global strategy, said Peggy Liu (Liu Yu), Director of the Group's Experience Operations Department. 
Russian PM accuses NATO of cynically deceiving UNSC ahead of attacks on Libya 
Medvedev also pointed to the sanctions the UN Security Council had imposed on Libya 
PALERMO /Italy/, November 13. /TASS/. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has accused NATO countries of cynically deceiving other members of the United Nations Security Council before launching a military operation against Libya. 
How would we regard it now? Not only as a serious mistake but, first and foremost, as a cynical deception on the part of those who claim to be the world’s moral and political leaders, he said at an international conference on Libya being held in Italy’s Palermo. The cynical deception occurred at the United Nations Security Council’s round table. Its decisions were distorted and violated, while the so-called temporary military coalition usurped the powers of the United Nations, Medvedev added. 
He also pointed to the sanctions the UN Security Council had imposed on Libya, including a ban on arms supplies and the establishment of a no-fly zone over the country. According to the Russian prime minister, these moves were supposed to help put an end to violence in Libya and create conditions for finding a political solution. At the same time, in Medvedev’s words, Russia insisted and still continues to insist that Libyan political forces resolve the country’s domestic affairs through dialogue. However, NATO countries launched a military operation against a sovereign state, carrying out air strikes on Libya in breach of the UN Security Council Resolution, instead of advancing political talks. 
The Russian prime minister stressed that Moscow did not vote for such a scenario. It’s not about the harm to the reputation that our country suffered, because it is Libya that had to face a horrible tragedy, the consequences of which we will continue to tackle in the decades to come, Medvedev noted. 
He expressed support for the efforts of United Nations Special Envoy Ghassan Salame, aimed at the implementation of the Action Plan for Libya, and welcomed the role of Libya’s foreign partners, who seek to facilitate steps to resolve the situation in the country. It is important to create conditions for the establishment of a democratic, united and sovereign Libya that will positively influence the region’s development, ensuring stability and boosting cooperation in the Mediterranean region and North Africa, the Russian prime minister concluded. 
Three-member delegation’s visit to Moscow to be brief, says WADA president 
According to earlier reports, the visit is scheduled for November 28 
BAKU, November 15. /TASS/. The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) will send a three-member delegation to Moscow in late November, while a five-member team will visit the country later, WADA President Sir Craig Reedie told TASS on Thursday. 
We will send a team of three. They will visit [the Moscow Anti-Doping Laboratory] with the Russian authorities, he said. 
Earlier on Thursday, Reedie said at the Agency’s Foundation Board Meeting in Azerbaijan’s capital of Baku that a WADA delegation would visit the Moscow Anti-Doping Laboratory on November 28. 
We think it can be done comfortably within two and a half days. This is not that difficult actually, Reedie noted. The next thing they will do is set the dates for the meeting of the full technical team, he added. On November 28, they will be there to agree on the next date for the group of five, which I hope will be December 10, so there could be a few days of a gap, the WADA president said. As far as I’m concerned I want it to happen as soon as it possibly can, because then the matter can be closed and we can validate the data that we receive, Reedie pointed out. I just want it done as quickly as we can because we really need to move on, he noted, adding that it’s very much in Russia’s interests and it certainly is in WADA’s interests. 
At the same time, the WADA president declined to name the delegation’s members, saying that sometimes you lose the eligibility or the availability of the people you want to use. Once I know a date I’d rather get my team absolutely fixed and then agree that with the Russian authorities, he noted. 
Meanwhile, Reedie told reporters that WADA expected Russia to fulfill conditions for the reinstatement of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA) in time. He said he hoped the work would be completed by December 31, a date the WADA Executive Committee had set at its September 20 meeting. 
The WADA president added that Russian Sports Minister Pavel Kolobkov had guaranteed WADA’s access to the Moscow Laboratory. According to Reedie, WADA had a written guarantee. 
On September 20, the WADA Executive Committee decided to reinstate RUSADA on condition that WADA would be granted access to the Moscow laboratory, sealed for a federal investigation. WADA also expects Russia to provide all suspicious samples from the laboratory for retesting until June 30, 2019. If Russia fails to fulfill WADA’s conditions, RUSADA will be once again declared non-compliant with the World Anti-Doping Code and Russian athletes will be stripped of the right to compete at the international level. 
UN to consider resolutions on US seizure of Russian diplomatic properties, says envoy 
Fedor Strzhizhovsky stated that the activities of the US authorities ran counter to its commitments as the host country under the United Nations Headquarters agreement 
UNITED NATIONS, November 15. /TASS/. The UN General Assembly will consider two resolutions in December on the situation surrounding Russia’s diplomatic properties in the US, Fedor Strzhizhovsky, Spokesman for the Russian Mission to the UN, told TASS on Thursday. 
This violation of justice by US authorities against the property and personnel of the Russian embassy, consulates and the permanent mission has entered the spotlight of the UN General Assembly at the request of the Russian delegation, he said. 
These issues were debated in October-November at its Sixth Committee (legal), Strzhizhovsky said. On November 13, two resolutions were approved that will be referred to the General Assembly for approval in November, he went on to say. 
The diplomat explained that the activities of the US authorities ran counter to its commitments as the host country under the United Nations Headquarters agreement. In view of this, the relevant UN committee has repeatedly appealed to Washington over the past few years to cancel a number of unlawful decisions. 
At Russia’s initiative, in October this committee insistently urged the US to immediately lift any unlawful restrictions against the premises of the Permanent Mission in Oyster Bay, to abolish the 40-kilometer zone restricting diplomats’ travels and to speed up the issuance of visas for delegates arriving in New York for UN affairs, he reiterated. 
As the result, the Sixth Committee approved these conclusions by consensus, adding them into a special resolution of the UN General Assembly that is passed on the results of activity of the Committee on Relations with the Host Country. Thus, the UN standpoint here has been practically shaped. So, the responsibility for non-compliance with the decisions passed in New York will rest fully with the American side, he stressed. 
As for the documents in question, the diplomat said it was the renewal of the effective resolution on the security of diplomatic missions, as well as a report, recording the illegal action by the US towards missions accredited at the UN. The UN resolution that has been in effect for the past two years now focuses specifically on the necessity of nations’ strict adherence to the rules covering the immunity of diplomatic missions, Strzhizhovsky explained. 
He said that within the framework of a report from the UN Committee on Relations with the Host Country, the Sixth Committee had separately considered an outstanding problem of Washington's unlawful activity towards the Russian Mission to the UN and some other missions. 
Problems involving diplomatic properties and visas 
Russia’s Permanent Representative to the UN Vasily Nebenzya said in an interview with TASS in September that Moscow had made sure that data on illegal US acts against Russia’s diplomatic property be included in a report by the UN chief. 
We sent the information to the UN Secretary General about the unlawful acts committed by the US authorities against the property and staff of the Russian embassy, the consulates and the permanent mission to the UN. This data has been included in Antonio Guterres’ report, which will be discussed in October by the Sixth (legal) committee, Nebenzya said in the interview. 
Moscow’s UN envoy noted that Russian diplomats in the US were still facing a slew of difficulties. 
Access to the premises of the permanent mission in Oyster Bay is still blocked, and most recently a significant number of our staff members were expelled under a far-fetched pretext, the diplomat noted. He also said Russian diplomats in New York and missions of some other states have been restricted in their travel to a 40-kilometer zone for years. Also, a host of problems with getting visas for delegates traveling to the US for UN events still exists. 
Washington’s Russian diplomatic property grab 
In September 2017, the US authorities closed down the Russian Consulate General in San Francisco and the trade mission in Washington, which are owned by the Russian government and enjoy diplomatic immunity, as well as the New York branch of the trade mission, which Russia had been renting, as part of America’s anti-Russian sanctions. Moscow described Washington's move as an openly hostile act and urged US authorities to reverse it immediately. On March 26, 2018, Washington announced the closure of Russia’s Consulate General in Seattle (the building was rented by Russia) and the consul general’s residence (Russia’s diplomatic property). 
Speaking at a news conference in Xiamen, China, after the BRICS summit in September 2017, Russian President Vladimir Putin said he would instruct the Foreign Ministry to file a lawsuit with a US court over the seizure of Russia’s diplomatic property. 
Later in September, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told a news conference after his speech at the 73rd session of the United Nations General Assembly that Moscow was about to wrap up work on lawsuits for US courts over the situation with Russia’s diplomatic property. 
Team Russia beats Canada to win junior Super Series for first time since 2014 
The Russian men’s national junior ice hockey team has won a Super Series tournament for the first time since 2014 
MOSCOW, 16 November. /TASS/. The Russian men’s national junior ice hockey team (players under the age of 20) has won a Super Series tournament for the first time since 2014, defeating the Canadian league teams with a final score of 4-2. The Russian team, led by head coach Valery Bragin, won in overtime to beat Team Quebec Major Junior Hockey League (QMJHL) 3-2. 
Stepan Starkov (41), Dmitry Zavgorodny (60) and Savely Olshansky (62, in overtime) scored goals for the Russian squad, while Team Quebec got their goals from Antoine Morand (9) and Noah Dobson (49). 
Starkov has become the best player in the 2018 Super Series, winning 6 points in 6 games (2 goals + 4 assists). 
The 2018 Super Series was held for the 16th time. Team Russia has now chalked up four victories having clinched previously wins in 2010, 2012, and 2014. The Canadian Hockey League won 12 of the 16 games played. The Super Series is held ahead of the world juniors, which is scheduled to take place in the Canadian cities of Vancouver and Victoria on December 26-January 5, 2019. 
Progress MS-10’s antennae and solar panels unfold smoothly 
Earlier it was reported that the Soyuz-FG carrier rocket with the cargo spaceship had sucessfully took off from the Baikonur 
KOROLYOV /Moscow region/, November 16. /TASS/. Antennae and solar panels of the Progress MS-10 cargo spaceship that was launched on Friday from the Baikonur space center unfolded smoothly several minutes after the spaceship had been put in designated orbit toward the International Space Station (ISS), a spokesman for the mission control center said. 
The antennae and solar panels of the Progress MS-10 cargo spaceship have unfolded, he said. 
The Soyuz-FG carrier rocket with the Progress MS-10 cargo spaceship blasted off from the Baikonur space center in Kazakhstan at 21:14 Moscow time on Friday. The Progress is to dock to the ISS’s Zvezda service module at 22:29 Moscow time on November 18. The spaceship will deliver about 2.5 tonnes of cargoes, including fuels, water and pressurized gases, to the ISS. 
The Progress spacecraft was originally scheduled to be launched to the ISS on October 30 but the launch was rescheduled for November 16 following the abortive launch of October 11. 
Soyuz-FG carrier rocket with a manned Soyuz MS-10 spacecraft blasted off from Kazakhstan’s Baikonur Cosmodrome to the International Space Station (ISS) on October 11. On board the spacecraft were Russian cosmonaut Alexei Ovchinin (the commander of the Soyuz MS-10) and NASA astronaut Nick Hague. 
Following a smooth liftoff, the Soyuz’s booster malfunctioned between the first and second stages of separating, whereupon the crew was forced to abort the flight and switch to ballistic descent. The manned Soyuz MS-10 spacecraft ended up landing safely in the Kazakh steppe. The crew was not hurt. This was the first emergency situation with the launch of a manned spacecraft over the past 35 years. 
The incident-probing commission announced on November 1 that the emergency situation occurred after a nozzle cover on the oxidizer tank failed to open due to the deformation of the separation contact sensor. 
The sensor was damaged during the assembly of the rocket’s first stage at the Baikonur Cosmodrome. 
Russian PM invites companies from Asia-Pacific region to EEF in 2019 
Dmitry Medvedev described the projects that are planned to be implemented in the Far East, noting that the scope of the work is immense. 
PORT MORESBY, November 17. /TASS/. Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has invited companies from the Asia-Pacific region unfamiliar with projects of the Russian Far East to participate in the Eastern Economic Forum in 2019. 
Many companies from the Asian-Pacific countries are using those unique opportunities (created for businessmen in the Far East) today. I would gladly invite those who have not yet seen it for themselves to jointly work at the platform of the Eastern Economic Forum that will be held in Vladivostok, he said at the summit of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) in Port Moresby. 
Medvedev described the projects that are planned to be implemented in the Far East, noting that the scope of the work is immense. We have tried to create the most comfortable environment for the business activity that can be compared with all best analogues in the world.. 
Eighteen Syrian troops killed in shelling by militants in Latakia region 
MOSCOW, November 17. /TASS/. At least 18 Syrian troops have been killed in shelling by militants at Safsara in the Latakia Province, Lieutenant General Vladimir Savchenko, head of the Russian center for reconciliation of conflicting sides in Syria, told reporters on Saturday. 
Over the past 24 hours, militants shelled outskirts of the cities of Aleppo (twice) and Hama (three times), the populated locality of Tell-Alush in Aleppo Province and the populated locality of Safsara in Latakia Province, he said. 
One soldier of the Syrian Armed Forces was wounded in the shelling in Tell-Alush, while 18 more soldiers were killed in shelling in Safsara, another soldier was wounded, he said. 
The general added that in the past 24 hours, one tonne of bread was distributed among residents of Karim Qun to the south of Aleppo. During a humanitarian mission in the Deir ez-Zor 450 food sets were handed out at the Salhiyah checkpoint. 
The Russian center for reconciliation of conflicting sides has carried out nearly 2,000 humanitarian missions, delivering more than 3,120 tonnes of aid to Syrians. 
The Russian reconciliation center continues to fulfill assigned tasks after the completion of the military campaign in Syria. The center’s officers regularly travel around the country's liberated areas to assess the humanitarian situation. The main efforts of the Russian military are now focused on assistance to the refugees returning to their homes and evacuation of civilians from de-escalation zones. 
Diplomat repudiates narrative that Russia’s moves drive US into abandoning INF deal 
The diplomat reiterated that Moscow's stance had always been to preserve the treaty 
MOSCOW, November 19. /TASS/. The US withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF Treaty) will trigger grave consequences for global security and Russia rejects the narrative that its steps are pushing Washington into these measures, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov told reporters on Monday. 
We are watching all commentaries of US officials on the INF Treaty, Ryabkov said. Our stance is certainly to preserve the treaty. 
We believe that the US plans to withdraw from the INF Treaty, in case [this scenario] is implemented, will trigger a grave aftermath for European and global security. We deny any logic that tries to attribute to us actions, which allegedly pushed Washington to declare the plans to withdraw from the treaty, Ryabkov said. 
The high-ranking diplomat emphasized that any attempts to blame Russia for non-complying with the treaty due to tests or any other steps related to the 9M729 cruise missile are unfounded. They are largely explained by the US desire to find pretexts to get rid of the restrictions, which were stipulated by the agreement, he stressed. 
Moscow noted that long before declaring the plans to leave the INF Treaty the special US structures had started conducting a research on the systems, which are banned by the treaty, according to Ryabkov. 
US President Donald Trump said on October 20 that his country would quit the INF Treaty because Russia was allegedly in breach of that agreement. Washington was criticized in Berlin and Beijing. In the meantime, London came out in support of the United States and NATO placed the responsibility for Trump’s decision on Russia, because in its opinion Moscow had apparently violated the treaty. 
The INF Treaty was signed on December 8, 1987 and took effect on June 1, 1988. It outlawed deployed and non-deployed intermediate range (1,000-5,000 kilometers) and shorter range (500-1,000 kilometers) ground-based missiles. In recent years Washington has repeatedly alleged Russia was in breach of the agreement. Moscow emphatically dismissed the charges and countered them with its own claims over the United States’ non-compliance. 
Canton Fair Promotes Local Industrial Clusters to Global Buyers 
GUANGZHOU, China, Nov. 20, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- During its 124th session, the China Import and Export Fair (Canton Fair) has implemented specialized promotional programs for local industrial clusters, helping them demonstrate their competitive products in local cluster exhibition zones. Cities participating in this zone include Taizhou, Zhejiang Province, Meishan, Sichuan Province, and Anxi and Jinjiang, Fujian Province. 
The industrial cluster protocol is a win-win scenario for exhibitors and buyers, said Maggie Pu, Deputy Director General of the Foreign Affairs Office at Canton Fair. Canton Fair has hosted 105 local industrial cluster promotion conferences and business-matching events for 20 provinces and cities. Local companies and industries have had the opportunity to meet global buyers, while buyers enjoy access to valuable products from a specialized region which may be unknown to competitors but have huge market potential. 
Regional Textile and Garment Industry Featured 
7 textile and garment industrial clusters in Canton Fair's Central Lane formed a concentrated display of local sources for global buyers of yarns, fabric accessories, home textiles and garments. Highlights from this area include: 
Xintang, a town in Guangzhou with the largest denim manufacturing and export base in China, has comprehensive industrial support and advanced manufacturing capabilities, which was shown to the buyers at the Fair. 
Shishi, a city in Fujian and one of the birthplaces and distribution centers for textile and garment products in China, has formed a comprehensive industrial chain covering textile raw materials, spinning and weaving, bleaching and dyeing finishing, garment processing, and auxiliary materials production, as well as R&D and marketing. The city has more than 3,500 textile and garment companies and more than 20,000 owners with annual gross domestic value reaching RMB 56.6 billion. 
Canton Fair Helps Boost Economic Growth for Less-developed Regions 
Canton Fair's mission to provide a platform for Chinese products includes a strong social responsibility component. To assist less-developed regions in spreading economic opportunity to their populations, the Fair helped them introduce some of their signature products to global buyers. 668 companies that cover 15 product categories have benefited from free access and service fee reductions, with 179 of them, from 22 trade delegations, joining the Traditional Chinese Specialty section to promote their products, such as food, men's and women's clothing, and medical and healthcare products. 
Xu Bing, Deputy Director General of the China Foreign Trade Centre, said that the specialized exhibition area has boosted economic development in these areas. Exhibitors have met customers through the Canton Fair, gaining knowledge and understanding of markets so that they can develop competitive products to further explore target international markets. 
About Canton Fair 
The China Import and Export Fair (Canton Fair), is held biannually in Guangzhou every spring and fall. Established in 1957, the fair is now a comprehensive exhibition with the longest history, highest level, largest scale and largest number of products as well as the broadest distribution of buyer origins and the highest business turnover in China. 
Western sanctions have positively impacted Russian companies, says VTB Capital CEO 
Vladimir Potapov noted Russia has made the greatest progress ever in terms of such an important World Bank index as Doing Business 
BEIJING, November 21. /TASS/. Chief Executive Officer of VTB Capital Investment Management Vladimir Potapov believes that western sanctions have positively impacted Russian companies, which was not expected by their initiators. 
Recently sanctions have positively impacted Russian companies … that faced an external challenge and behaved positively as we have noted a substantial progress from the viewpoint of efficiency of many companies, he said on Wednesday. 
According to Potapov, even amid growing volatility on the commodities markets and restricted capital access, serious domestic sources of liquidity can be always found in Russia. Much is being done from our side. One of the main factors is to make our companies and sectors attractive for investments. For example, Russia has made the greatest progress ever in terms of such an important World Bank index as Doing Business, he said, adding that Russia has climbed over 90 spots of the rating - from 123rd to 21st - since 2012. 
Russian aviation institute to team up with China in research of Mars landing craft 
The sides are the Russian Central Aero-Hydrodynamic Institute and the China Academy of Aerospace Aerodynamics 
MOSCOW, November 21. /TASS/. The Russian Central Aero-Hydrodynamic Institute (TsAGI) will cooperate with the Chinese side in carrying out research into Mars landing craft, the TsAGI press office reported on Wednesday. 
A cooperation agreement was signed at the Airshow China 2018 on scientific and technical cooperation between TsAGI and the China Academy of Aerospace Aerodynamics and intentions were confirmed to cooperate in the research of Mars landing craft, the press office said in a statement. 
Also, TsAGI and the China Aerodynamics Research and Development Center (CARDC) signed an agreement at the airshow under the project titled: Studying the Sources of Noise of High-Drag Bodies Using Small and Large Models to Develop the Methods of Reducing the Noise of Aircraft Landing Gear. 
The project is expected to be implemented as part of the federal target program Studies and Developments in the Priority Areas of Developing the Russian Technological Complex in the Period of 2014-2020. 
The 12th Airshow China 2018 international aerospace exhibition ran in Zhuhai (China) on November 6-11. 
Russian delegation head calls for realistic approach to Syrian chemical dossier 
The Russian side noted with satisfaction that both sides have shown mutual desire to tackle the remaining issues 
THE HAGUE, November 21. /TASS/. Russia believes it is essential to show realism with respect to Syria’s chemical dossier and take into account the fact that Damascus cannot answer some questions after so many years, head of the Russian delegation, Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Georgy Kalamanov, said on Wednesday at the Fourth Review Conference of the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW). 
It is perfectly clear that, amid the raging war, the elimination of the Syrian military-chemical potential under strict international control was an important milestone in the organization’s history, he noted. This result would not have been possible without cooperation between all the the state parties to the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC), political will and the Syrian authorities’ dedicated efforts. At the same time, during the work on the Syrian track, systemic flaws related to cooperation between the OPCWs Technical Secretariat and Damascus on a number of issues emerged. 
We are very much concerned about the fact that the more information the Syrian government sends to the OPCW, the more questions are posed. We must realize that, after so many years and amid the ongoing armed conflict, Damascus is unable to respond to most of the enquiries. 
We believe it is essential to show realism here, because this state of affairs cannot last indefinitely, he said. We believe the OPCW Technical Secretariat and Syria need to review the remaining issues. We note with satisfaction that both sides have shown mutual desire to tackle them. However, it is necessary to abandon politically motivated claims relying solely on expert analysis.. 
UEFA commission to visit Euro 2020 host city St. Petersburg in September 2019 
MOSCOW, November 21. /TASS/. A next working visit of the UEFA commission to St. Petersburg, which will be among the host cities of UEFA Euro 2020, will take place in September 2019, the head of the Russia-2020 Organizing Committee, Alexei Sorokin, told TASS on Wednesday. 
On Tuesday, the Union of European Football Associations approved five training sites in Russia’s second biggest city of St. Petersburg for Euro 2020 teams. These are the stadiums Petrovsky and Smena, two arenas in the satellite towns of Pavlovsk and Zelenogorsk, as well as FC Zenit’s base in Udelny Park. 
Five sites have been approved tentatively, but they have not been chosen by the teams as of yet. Then the participating national teams will make their choice. They (sites) don’t need any additional work on them, they are ready, Sorokin said. UEFA representatives have been visiting us on a regular basis, and a next, fourth visit, will be in September next year, the head of the organizing committee said. 
These training sites were used during the 2018 FIFA World Cup. The Saudi Arabian national team trained at the FC Zenit base, the Costa-Rican team trained at the Olimpiyets Stadium in Pavlovsk, while the team of England used the Spartak Stadium in Zelenogorsk for its training sessions. 
UEFA Euro 2020 
The decision to hold the 2020 Euro Cup, which will be celebrating its 60th anniversary that year, in various European countries instead of in one or two hosting countries was made at the UEFA Executive Committee’s meeting in Lausanne, Switzerland, on December 6, 2012. 
The matches of Euro 2020 will be held at stadiums in cities of 12 different European countries, namely in London (England), Munich (Germany), Rome (Italy), Baku (Azerbaijan), Saint Petersburg (Russia), Bucharest (Romania), Amsterdam (The Netherlands), Dublin (Ireland), Bilbao (Spain), Budapest (Hungary), Glasgow (Scotland) and Copenhagen (Denmark). 
A total of 24 national football teams will be playing in the final tournament of the 2020 Euro Cup. All 55 UEFA national member teams, including 12 teams from the hosting countries, will have to play in the qualifying matches to vie for the berth in the final 24-team lineup of the quadrennial European football championship. 
It is possible that some of the national teams from the hosting countries of the 2020 Euro Cup will not be playing in home soil in case they fail to clear the qualifying stage. The Qualifying Draw for the 2020 UEFA Euro Cup is scheduled to take place at the Convention Center Dublin, Ireland, on December 2, 2018. 
Top Kremlin official suggests global tech giants open branch offices in Russia — sources 
MOSCOW, November 22. /TASS/. First Deputy Chief of Staff of the Presidential Administration, Sergei Kiriyenko, on Wednesday met with managers of the world’s leading Internet companies behind closed doors, suggesting that they open representative offices in the country, sources who participated in the meeting told TASS. 
He said [it] clearly, the source added, speaking about the proposal to Facebook to set up a branch in Russia. According to the source, a Facebook representative noted in reply to Kiriyenko’s proposal that they are working on it, but their company is big, so signals take a long time. Facebook has stayed mum on TASS’s request for a comment. 
Another source, who also attended the meeting, told TASS that the proposal to open representative offices in Russia did not only apply to Facebook. To be full-fledged participants of the Russian Internet economy, it is sensible for foreign companies to be present here with a branch office, the source explained. 
According to a press release by the Russian Electronic Communications Association (RAEC, which organized the meeting as part of the Russian Internet Week), among the issues that had been discussed at the gathering, arranged as a business breakfast were providing tax benefits to IT companies, net neutrality attitudes, and the unacceptability of monopolization of the market by large platforms. 
Our market has been and will be open to foreign companies. There are no plans to constrain it. However, there is one condition, which is that Russian legislation must be strictly adhered to. It is unacceptable when a company has a competitive advantage, because it does not take responsibility to comply with the rules, RAEC cited Kiriyenko as saying. 
Other issues 
In addition, those attending the meeting hashed over several other issues. The question by Anna Serebryanikova, Chief Operating Officer at MegaFon, about self-regulation of the big data market, sparked a heated debate, according to RAEC’s statement. Kiriyenko pointed out that the government is not trying to impose development patterns on anyone, but is striving for clear and transparent rules instead. 
According to him, rules that are shaped by market participants work best, the statement reads. As an example, Kiriyenko cited an anti-piracy agreement, which had been recently signed by Yandex, Mail.ru, Rambler and rights holders from the largest media holdings, RAEC quoted the Kremlin official as saying. 
Self-regulation in the gaming industry had also been addressed during the meeting. Kiriyenko believes that game developers and distributors could start with an alliance, working out rules of collaboration, setting game content age ratings, and bolstering the industry’s transparency. The first deputy chief of staff in the Russian presidential administration asked to think over which support measures are needed for the gaming industry to make Russian games the best in the world, according to the statement. 
The issues of using Yandex’s smart speaker for digital assistant 'Alice' had also been raised, delegates to the meeting told TASS. We are open to connecting new services and opportunities for 'Alice', including public services. To teach 'Alice' new things, there is a new open platform, 'Yandex. Dialogues', which currently boasts over 30,000 skills and chats, the Yandex press center told TASS. 
Dmitry Buyanov, Director of Government Relations of the Group-IB, said that he left feeling positive about the meeting. Since the business breakfast had lasted for just an hour, not everyone had succeeded in asking their questions, so Kiriyenko ordered to collect all those left unanswered and send them to the Kremlin. 
Skolkovo Foundation’s resident localizes automation system in Russia 
The adapted product will make possible to reduce time and costs for solution of all operating tasks at the power distribution facilities 
MOSCOW, November 22. /TASS/. Schneider Electric Skolkovo, created by the Skolkovo Foundation and France’s Schneider Electric, completed localization of a software product for Russian companies. It was developed within the framework of the import substitution program in Russia and will help users to automate processes in the electric energy sphere, press service of the Foundation told TASS on Thursday. 
Schneider Electric Skolkovo, the resident of the Foundation, implemented localization of a software product in the smart grids sphere for the domestic market. The adapted product will make possible to reduce time and costs for solution of all operating tasks at the power distribution facilities, the Foundation says in its press release. 
The case in point is the first module of ADMS (Advanced Distribution Management System). Users will be able to automatically control power distribution and forecast energy consumption owing to the product, the press service says. 
ADMS enables unattended control of the distribution flow in power networks, precise identification of a damage point, reduction of energy losses, control of teams work and forecast energy consumption. Schneider Electric is implementing this project in many countries of the world, the press service says. 
Localization of the product takes place within the framework of the import substitution program in Russia, it reports. All codes and rights to the adapted product will be within the territory of Russia. It will not be possible to influence from the outside on the strategically important power supply branch, the Foundation says in the press release. 
Key Russian bishop to visit North Korea 
Metropolitan Hilarion of Volokolamsk arrived in Seoul to join the round table The Russian Orthodox Church and Compatriots: Experience of Cooperation in Southeast Asia, Australia and Oceania 
MOSCOW, November 22. /TASS/. Chairman of the Moscow Patriarchate’s Department for External Church Relations (DECR), Metropolitan Hilarion of Volokolamsk, has arrived in Seoul to take part in a conference dedicated to the Russian Orthodox Church’s work with compatriots in Asia, Australia and Oceania. His visit to North Korea is planned as well, the DECR press service reported. 
Chairman of the Moscow Patriarchate’s Department for External Church Relations Metropolitan Hilarion of Volokolamsk arrived in Seoul on November 22 with the blessing of Patriarch Kirill of Moscow and All Russia. The archpastor leads the Russian Church’s delegation taking part in the round table titled The Russian Orthodox Church and Compatriots: Experience of Cooperation in Southeast Asia, Australia and Oceania, the press service said. 
At the Seoul airport, the delegation was welcomed by Russian Ambassador to South Korea Andrei Kulik and Archbishop Sergiy of Solnechnogorsk, the administrator of the Moscow Patriarchate’s parishes in East and Southeast Asia. 
The program of Metropolitan Hilarion’s stay on Korean soil includes participation in the round table titled ‘The Russian Orthodox Church and Compatriots: Experience of Cooperation in Southeast Asia, Australia and Oceania' as well as visit to the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the press service added. 
Ukraine’s army put on full combat alert - Defense Ministry 
Due to the situation in the Kerch Strait, National Security and Defense Council Secretary Alexander Turchinov earlier voiced the initiative on imposing martial law in the country for 60 days 
KIEV, November 26. /TASS/. The Ukrainian armed forces have been put on full combat alert by the decision of the chief of the country’s General Staff, the press service of Ukraine’s Defense Ministry reported on Monday. 
In accordance with the National Security and Defense Council’s decision on imposing martial law, the chief of the General Staff and commander-in-chief of Ukraine’s armed forces ordered to put the Ukrainian armed forces’ units on full combat alert, the press service said. 
Due to the situation in the Kerch Strait, National Security and Defense Council Secretary Alexander Turchinov earlier voiced the initiative on imposing martial law in the country for 60 days backed by the Ukrainian president. Now this bill is to be considered by Ukraine’s Verkhovna Rada (parliament). According to its speaker Andrei Parubiy, its meeting will be convened on Monday at 16:00 local time (17:00 Moscow time). 
For his part, the Ukrainian president assured that the proposed move would not affect the army’s actions in the Donbass area and would not imply urgent mobilization. 
On November 25, the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) border directorate for Crimea reported that three Ukrainian warships had illegally crossed Russia’s state border in the Black Sea and entered Russia’s territorial waters performing dangerous maneuvers. Later on, the FSB said that two more Ukrainian warships had sailed off from Berdyansk to join the three vessels. However, they soon turned back. 
All three Ukrainian Navy vessels, which violated the Russian state border, were detained in the Black Sea, with weapons used to force them to stop. Three wounded Ukrainian military servicemen received medical care, the FSB said, adding that there was no threat to their lives. A criminal case has been initiated over violation of Russia’s state border. 
The FSB stressed that before making such dangerous and irresponsible decisions, the Kiev leadership should have thought about possible consequences of its actions.. 
Lavrov castigates assault on Russian embassy in Kiev as obnoxious 
Following Kiev’s provocation in the Kerch Strait, Ukrainian radicals carried out activities in front of Russia’s diplomatic facilities overnight into November 26 
MOSCOW, November 26. /TASS/. An assault on the Russian embassy in Kiev overnight into November 26 was obnoxious and proved that radical Ukrainian nationalists and neo-Nazis control the situation in the country, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Monday. 
It is radical nationalists and neo-Nazis who run the show in Ukraine, and yesterday’s obnoxious flare-throwing activity in front of the Russian embassy in Kiev is another proof of that, the Russian top diplomat pointed out. 
Not that the police remained inactive, but they did not seem particularly willing to put an end to that mayhem, Lavrov noted. 
Following Kiev’s provocation in the Kerch Strait, Ukrainian radicals carried out activities in front of Russia’s diplomatic facilities overnight into November 26. They threw flares at the Russian embassy in the Ukrainian capital and burned tires in front of the consulate general in Lvov. In Kharkov, a group of extremists threw flares and eggs at the Russian consulate general. 
Putin hopes Berlin will influence Kiev regarding situation in Kerch Strait 
Vladimir Putin provided an assessment of the Ukrainian side's provocative actions, gross violation of norms of international law, the Kremlin press service said 
MOSCOW, November 27. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin expressed hope in the telephone conversation with German Chancellor Angela Merkel that Germany will influence Ukraine regarding the situation in the Kerch Strait to keep Kiev from making rash decisions, the Kremlin press service reported. 
Vladimir Putin provided an assessment of the Ukrainian side's provocative actions, gross violation of norms of international law when its [Ukraine's] military ships deliberately ignored the rules of peaceful passage through territorial waters of the Russian Federation, the press service said. 
Vladimir Putin expressed hope that Berlin will influence the Ukrainian authorities and keep them from making further hasty decisions, the press service added. 
The conversation between Putin and Merkel was initiated by Germany. The Russian president expressed his concern over Kiev's decision to bring its military forces into full combat readiness and declare martial law. It was emphasized that the Ukrainian leadership bears full resposibility for creating another conflict situation and for risks associated with it. All of this was evidently undertaken with Ukraine's election campaign in mind, the Kremlin press service said. 
Putin also noted that Russian Border Service will be ready to provide additional clarifications on how the situation in the Kerch Strait developed. 
On November 25 three warships of the Ukrainian Navy violated the rules of passage through Russia's territorial waters while en route from the Black Sea to the Azov Sea. The Russian side had to use weapons to compel the ships to stop. Three Ukrainian servicemen were lightly wounded. They received medical assistance. The ships were detained and escorted to the port of Kerch. A criminal case was initiated on border violation charges. 
The Russian side described the incident as a provocation. The Ukrainian authorities declared martial law. The EU and NATO called for de-escalation of the situation. 
Ukrainian forces shell LPR territory seven times over last 24 hours 
Ukrainian forces used mortars, grenade launchers, weapons of infantry fighting vehicles and large-caliber guns 
MOSCOW, November 27. /TASS/. /TASS/. Ukrainian forces have shelled the territory of the self-proclaimed Lugasnk People's Republic (LPR) seven times over last 24 hours, LPR people's militia told reporters on Tuesday. 
Ukrainian forces shelled the settlement of Kalinovo; settlements of Sokolniki, Molodezhnoye and Krasny Yar; as well as the Prince Igor monument near Stanitsa Luganskaya, LuganskInformCenter quoted LPR people's militia as saying. 
Ukrainian forces used mortars, grenade launchers, weapons of infantry fighting vehicles and large-caliber guns. 
The last agreement on ceasefire in eastern Ukraine was reached at the Contact Group meeting in Minsk. The ceasefire was supposed to start overnight to September 29, right before the beginning of a school year. Since the start of the conflict, the sides have agreed on a ceasefire over 20 times already, but violations keep occurring. 
Russia to develop measures to support local enterprises amid expected new sanctions 
The Ministry of Industry and Trade says it considers it necessary to support companies through ensuring availability of ‘cheap’ credit facilities for their activities 
MOSCOW, November 27. /TASS/. Russia’s Industry and Trade Ministry does not rule out that the Industrial Development Fund will develop new measures to support industrial enterprises amid an expected new wave of US sanctions, the Minister Denis Manturov told TASS. 
Amid this background the Ministry of Industry and Trade considers it necessary to support companies through ensuring availability of ‘cheap’ credit facilities for their activities. For doing that, there is a mechanism of providing soft loans by the Industrial Development Fund with the rate of interest ranging from 1% to 5%. I do not rule out that we together with the Fund will develop additional support mechanisms as new sanctions are imposed, he said when commenting on a potential expansion of US sanctions. 
The new wave of sanctions expected in November will affect Russia’s financial sector and will ban dollar transactions both with individuals and legal entities under sanctions, the minister said. 
We have been implementing the import substitution program since 2015, while this year we have started implementing and developing new individual mechanisms of supporting big companies under sanctions, he said, adding that tit-for-tat sanctions against foreign countries are also being developed by (the Industry and Trade Ministry) together with other ministries, that are virtually actions against imposed sanctions.. 
Russian delegation visits Estonia to inspect military facilities within OSCE framework 
Earlier, Estonian experts visited Belarus to inspect its armed forces as well as to take part in the Zapad military exercises involving Russian and Belarusian military forces 
TALLINN, November 27./TASS/. A Russian delegation from the Center for Arms Control has arrived in Estonia to inspect country’s military facilities, the Estonian Defense Forces said on Tuesday. 
Under the report, the inspectors will visit the central training area as well as the 1st and 2nd infantry brigades within the framework of the Vienna Document of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE). 
Earlier, Estonian experts visited Belarus to inspect its armed forces as well as to take part in the Zapad (West) military exercises involving Russian and Belarusian military forces. 
The Vienna Document on confidence-and security-building measures was passed by the OSCE in November 2011. In particular, it envisages inspections by OSCE member countries of certain areas, formations and military units to control military activity. 
Russian Olympic chief hopes for positive changes after WADA experts’ visit 
TOKYO, November 28. /TASS/. Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) President Stanislav Pozdnyakov expects that the visit of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) experts will have a positive impact on the situation around Russian athletes and will enable them to compete at international events. 
The Russian Olympic Committee is the founder of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA). That’s why we want our national anti-doping agency to continue operating at the level, where it is now, and this is a very high level. We hope very much that this visit [of WADA representatives] and further steps will enable our athletes, clean athletes to compete at the events of the highest level, and our country to hold championships on its territory, Pozdnyakov told TASS. 
The delegation consisting of three WADA experts, whose names have not been released, is beginning its visit to Moscow on Wednesday to work in the anti-doping laboratory. Providing WADA with access by the year-end to doping samples data of the Moscow Anti-Doping Laboratory, sealed off due to a federal investigation, is a key condition for reinstating RUSADA. 
During the visit the WADA delegation is due to meet with Russia’s sports authorities and the sides are expected to agree on a date of the specialists’ second visit to Moscow. 
The WADA Executive Committee announced on September 20 that the Russian Anti-Doping Agency was again in compliance with the Code of the global agency and its membership was reinstated. In case RUSADA fails to comply with the conditions for reinstatement, the organization will be again stripped of the compliance status. 
RUSADA was declared non-compliant with the WADA Code in November 2015 after a doping scandal in Russia’s track and field athletics. New doping revelations were later made based on claims of former head of the Moscow anti-doping laboratory Grigory Rodchenkov, who fled to the United States. Amid the continuing doping scandals, the decision on reinstating the organization has been postponed many times. 
Over the past years, RUSADA has undergone significant changes. Its top management resigned and the organization received full independence from the Russian Sports Ministry, and independent experts from WADA and the UK Anti-Doping Agency provided assistance in its work. 
Siberian scientists to test gold-plated nanodiscs to fight cancer 
Experiments are set to begin in 2019 
MOSCOW, November 8. /TASS/ Researchers at the Siberian Federal University (SFU) have started developing technology to create gilded nanodiscs capable of delivering anticancer medication to affected organs, hoping to test the technique in 2019, the SFU’s press service told TASS on Thursday. 
“SFU scientists have begun research on creating multi-layer gilded nanodiscs to deliver medication to and for the treatment of malignant new growths with the use of dip-pen nanolithography (DPN). The first experiments involving the biological objects are due in 2019,” the news release says. 
Gilded magnetic nanodiscs are in great demand in biology and medicine. Nanodiscs can be “taught” to deliver medicines to the diseased organs and tissues. Also, they are capable of destroying the target cells mechanically, for instance, the cells of a malignant tumor. Before they can be used inside the human body, though, a special coating must be applied to the nanodiscs to make them less toxic. The discs have multilayer structure and gold cover. 
Nanoimprint lithography is currently one of the most widely used methods of producing nanodiscs. SFU scientists hope to devise a less costly way and more flexible technology to make such discs for medical purposes, varying in shape and size and having strictly controlled parameters. For this, the researchers intend to employ the dip-pen nanolithography technique, with the tip of an electronic force microscope acting as a “pen,” which is coated with a chemical compound or mixture as an “ink,” and put in contact with a substrate, the “paper.” The DPN enables the nanoscale materials to be directly deposited onto a substrate in a flexible manner. 
Astana meeting to help achieve progress on Syria — Lavrov 
GENEVA, November 28. /TASS/. The international meeting on Syria held in Kazakhstan’s capital, Astana, will help its participants to achieve progress on the issue of Syrian regulation and creation of an infrastructure to facilitate the return of the refugees, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov stated on Wednesday. 
Another meeting in Astana has begun literally today. It will last for two days, and I hope that on the outcomes of this meeting, we will find new grounds for progress on the solution of the issues in the sphere of military and political stabilization, as well as in the area of increasing humanitarian aid, and cooperating in the modernization of the infrastructure necessary for the refugees’ return. Of course, within the political process on preparing for the negotiations under the aegis of the UN in Geneva, Lavrov noted. 
The international meeting on Syria is taking place in Astana on November 28-29. A plenary session is set to take place on November 29. 
Ambassador calls for 'political will' to solve issues over INF Treaty 
Donald Trump publicly announced plans to withdraw from the INF Treaty in October 
PRINCETON /New Jersey/, November 30. /TASS/. Political will is needed to address the issues related to the implementation of the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF Treaty), Russian Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov said on Thursday, addressing the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. 
Perhaps, it would be no exaggeration to say that today politicians and political scientists, legislators and arms control experts are worried about US plans to withdraw from the INF Treaty, concluded in 1987, he stated. I would like to remind that due to this Treaty two classes of ground-launched medium-range (1,000-5,500 kilometers) and shot-range (500-1,000 kilometers) ballistic cruise missiles were eliminated. It was the first international agreement in history on real nuclear disarmament. Now it is on the brink of collapse. 
Russia and the US have mutual complaints over the implementation of the INF Treaty, the diplomat added. We have always expressed our readiness to maintain a professional dialogue with the US colleagues to address mutual concerns. However, the US Administration sticks to finger-pointing, blaming Russia for destroying the Treaty. The Americans prefer to remain silent on their own violations. We are confident that should there be political will, a compromise can be reached. 
We still stand for continuing consultations with a view to preserve the INF Treaty as one of the cornerstones of international security, Antonov stressed. Today one can hear opinions that nothing will happen if the US abandons the INF Treaty. The argument is that over 15 years ago Washington withdrew from the ABM Treaty and there were no catastrophic consequences. I don’t think it would be accurate to paint such a rosy picture. In this regard, the Ambassador recalled that Russian President Vladimir Putin announced a new weapons system on March 1, 2018, which Moscow had been forced to develop in order to maintain strategic balance. 
US President Donald Trump publicly announced plans to withdraw from the INF Treaty on October 20 and October 22. Washington has not yet handed over an official notification on the issue to Moscow. However, US President’s National Security Advisor, John Bolton, said on October 31 that this notification would follow in due course. 
US Under Secretary for Arms Control and International Security, Andrea Thompson, said on November 15 that the US administration has not made a final decision as of yet as to whether Washington should withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. 
The first time that the US had accused Russia of violating the INF Treaty was back in July 2014. After that Washington has repeated its allegations several times, with which Moscow does not agree, striking back at Washington with counter-claims. 
Putin arrives in Argentina for G20 summit 
During the trip, the president is using a new Aurus limousine 
BUENOS AIRES, November 30. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived in Buenos Aires. The Russian head of state will take part in the G20 summit there and hold a number of bilateral meetings with colleagues, including Argentina’s President Mauricio Macri as part of an official visit to this country. 
During the trip to Argentina Putin is using a new Aurus limousine, which was brought to Buenos Aires beforehand and placed near the plane’s airstair. 
Right from the airport Putin went to a meeting with colleagues from the BRICS countries (Brazil, Russia, India, China, South Africa). Later on Friday he will take part in three rounds of sessions at the G20 summit, an isolated meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping and a trilateral meeting with him and Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi. Putin’s negotiations with French President Emmanuel Macron are planned for the same day. 
Putin will continue communication with the G20 colleagues at a ceremonial reception for distinguished guests held on behalf of the summit’s host, Argentina’s President Mauricio Macri. Putin’s working day will end when it will be Saturday morning in Moscow 
On December 1, the Russian president will take part in sessions of the G20 summit and hold isolated meetings. His visit to Argentina will end the same day. 
UEFA opens disciplinary proceedings against Spartak FC after home match with Rapid 
Earlier it was reported that Miroslav Golunov was put under administrative arrest as he allegedly hit the pitch during the match between Russian and Austrian football clubs 
MOSCOW, November 30. /TASS/. The Union of European Football Associations (UEFA) has initiated disciplinary proceeding against Russian football club Spartak Moscow following the Europa League match against Austria’s football club Rapid in the Russian capital on Thursday. 
Disciplinary proceedings have been opened following the UEFA Europa League group stage match between FC Spartak Moskva and SK Rapid Wien (1-2), played on 29 November in Russia, the European governing football body announced in a statement on Friday. 
The UEFA reported in its statement that the disciplinary proceedings against Spartak Moscow FC were launched on charges of field invasion by supporters, as well stairways blocked. 
The case will be dealt with by the UEFA Control, Ethics and Disciplinary Body on 13 December, the statement added. 
During the match in Moscow on Thursday night a Russian football fan rushed out onto the field and attempted to assault Spartak’s captain Denis Glushakov. 
A police source told TASS earlier in the day that a Moscow court ruled to hand out a 10-day administrative arrest for Miroslav Golunov, who had been identified to be the one to hit the pitch during the match. 
According to video footage, Golunov shoved the club’s midfielder several times trying to rip off the captain’s band off Glushakov’s arm before he was approached by security officers and escorted out of the stadium. 
Spartak Moscow football club suffered a 1-2 home defeat last night to Austria’s Rapid FC. The hosts opened the score 20 minutes into the game with a netter delivered by striker Ze Luis. 
However, the guests tuned in after the mid-game break and scored two goals to seal the win with the goals from Mert Muldur on the 80th minute and from Philipp Schobesberger in the three-minute added time. 
Russia’s Spartak Moscow FC is in the fourth and last place of the group at the moment with five points and the club is scheduled to play an away match against Villareal on December 13. 
The group is topped by Villareal FC (7 points) and it is followed by Rapid with seven points and then by Rangers FC (six points) before closing in on Spartak with its five points. 
Japan sees great potential in purchasing oil from Russia - envoy 
In 2017, we imported from Russia about 5.8% of the total volume of oil imported to Japan, but we think that the potential for extending cooperation is still very high, Toyohisa Kozuki noted 
MOSCOW, December 1. /TASS/. Japan sees prospects for extending cooperation in purchasing oil from Russia, Japanese Ambassador to Russia Toyohisa Kozuki told TASS in an interview. 
In 2017, we imported from Russia about 5.8% of the total volume of oil imported to Japan, but we think that the potential for extending cooperation is still very high, the ambassador noted. 
To Japan, which depends on the import of almost all oil from abroad, the provision of stable deliveries of inexpensive oil is an important task, he pointed out. For this reason, our country is promoting the diversification of oil import sources, and we regard Russia, which is geographically close to Japan, as a very important country in this regard. 
Kozuki reiterated that currently Japan is importing oil from Russia, which is produced under the projects Sakhalin-1 and Sakhalin-2, as well as the East Siberian oil, which is transported through the East Siberia - Pacific Ocean pipeline system to the port of Kozmino.. 
Ukrainian president submits bill on local elections under martial law to parliament 
Rada speaker said at the meeting that elections could be threatened in almost 40 newly-created united territorial communities following the declaration of martial law 
KIEV, December 3. /TASS/. Ukrainian President Pyotr Poroshenko has submitted to the parliament a bill amending the law On endorsing the presidential decree on the declaration of martial law in Ukraine, which will make it possible to hold elections in the country’s regions where martial law has been introduced, Presidential Envoy to the Verkhovna Rada (parliament) Irina Lutsenko said at a meeting of the Rada’s conciliation board. 
The president has submitted a bill to the Rada, which will make it possible to hold elections in the united territorial communities, where a special legal regime has been introduced, Lutshenko said. 
Rada Speaker Andrei Paruby said at the meeting that elections could be threatened in almost 40 newly-created united territorial communities following the declaration of martial law as no elections, including local ones, could be conducted under martial law. 
It was agreed during consultations that today, the Ukrainian president would submit a relevant bill, which would tackle this legal issue, Paruby said, adding that he expected the bill to be passed later in the week. 
Martial law declaration 
On November 26, Ukraine’s Verkhovna Rada (parliament) approved President Pyotr Poroshenko’s decree declaring a 30-say martial law in the Vinnitsa, Lugansk, Nikolayevsk, Odessa, Sumy, Kharkov, Chernigov, Donetsk, Zaporozhye and Kherson regions, as well as in Ukraine’s territorial waters in the Sea of Azov. 
An incident in the Kerch Strait was used as an excuse for the move. On November 25, three Ukrainian navy ships illegally crossed Russia’s border and tried to carry out some illegal actions in Russian territorial waters on Sunday night. They ignored legitimate demands to stop issued by vessels belonging to the FSB Border Service and the Black Sea Fleet and continued maneuvering dangerously. In order to stop the Ukrainian ships, weapons had to be used. The three vessels were detained in Russian territorial waters. Three Ukrainian military servicemen suffered light wounds and were provided with medical assistance. A criminal investigation has been opened into the border incident. The 24 Ukrainian crew members have been arrested for two months for violating the Russian state border. If found guilty, they may face up to six years in prison. 
Press review: Will Qatar’s OPEC exit impact markets and Istanbul summit 2.0 on the horizon 
Top stories in the Russian press in Tuesday, December 4 
Izvestia: Qatari exit from OPEC poses no market risks 
Qatar's decision to leave OPEC on December 3, marks the first case of an Arab nation's withdrawal from the organization. Doha has been in OPEC for 57 years, almost since its inception. Qatar’s withdrawal from OPEC effective January 2019 will not put pressure on the oil market or prices, according to experts interviewed by Izvestia. The influence of this state on the global balance of supply and demand is minor, regardless of its participation in the cartel. According to experts, the trade war between the United States and China, which is slowing growth rates in the global economy, has a more powerful impact on oil. The market situation will become clearer after the OPEC+ summit in Vienna on December 6-7, the newspaper wrote. 
Leading expert at the National Energy Security Fund Igor Yushkov told Izvestia that the reasons for Qatar’s pullout from OPEC are more political than economic. Doha has tense relations with the Saudis and does not want to work under their grip even formally. At the same time, Qatar’s decision will not affect business relations with Russia, Chairman of the Russian-Qatari Business Council Ahmet Palankoev told the newspaper. Doha is interested in maintaining stable relations with our country. All recent Qatari investments in Russia indicate this positive attitude towards us, he said. 
Qatar’s exit from OPEC will not affect the global oil market, according to leading expert of the Union of Oil and Gas Industrialists of Russia Rustam Tankayev. OPEC's decisions no longer matter, and Qatar retains its positions in the OPEC+ agreement. The OPEC+ deal controls 95-98% of the international oil trade and 70% in oil products, he told Izvestia. 
Today, the bigger question is Qatar’s participation in OPEC+. This is much more significant for today's realities, since it is now possible to influence the market only in the format of OPEC+. This would be a significant political move, Deputy General Director of the National Energy Institute Alexander Frolov told Izvestia. 
Otkritie Broker analyst Timur Nigmatullin told the newspaper that the US-Chinese trade war has a much greater influence locally on the oil market than Qatar does, since it slows down the growth rates of world trade, and hence the global economy. 
Izvestia: Talking Turkey - Likely four-way Istanbul summit 2.0 to discuss Idlib de-escalation 
Russia has concurred to take part in another round of quadrilateral talks on Syria with the participation of Germany, France and Turkey, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told Izvestia. The Federation Council clarified that the new conference is likely to be held in Turkey. Earlier, on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Buenos Aires, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan invited his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin to hold a second round of talks to resolve the Syrian crisis. 
The meeting might be held in the near future. Which of the parties will act as its organizer does not matter, Peskov noted, answering a question from Izvestia about the summit’s venue. The main point is the very possibility of it. Location is not important. The main thing is the format, Peskov told the newspaper. 
The participation of two influential European states - France and Germany - can play a positive role in the process of resolving the crisis in the Arab Republic, Senator Alexey Pushkov told Izvestia. In addition, the summit will be an excellent opportunity to establish contacts between the Russian leadership and leaders of the European Union on other issues, he added. I believe that the meeting will be held in the near future, since all parties are interested in this dialogue, he told the newspaper. According to the senator, the next summit is likely to be held in Istanbul, since the Turkish leader initiated the idea. 
The meeting between countries whose approaches to settling the Syrian conflict differ is an excellent opportunity to hammer out a solution that would suit everyone, Russian orientalist Vyacheslav Matuzov told the newspaper, adding that only the negotiation process can lead to a de-escalation of the situation. 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: Ukraine pushing to cut all ties with Russia 
Ukrainian President Pyotr Poroshenko submitted a bill on terminating the Treaty on Friendship, Cooperation and Partnership between Ukraine and Russia to the Verkhovna Rada, according to the official website of the Ukrainian parliament. Head of the Ukrainian Policy Foundation, Konstantin Bondarenko told Nezavisimaya Gazeta that the deal is virtually no longer valid, since Kiev had previously warned Moscow that it would not renew it in the spring of next year. Thus, renouncing the accord is just a statement of fact. Meanwhile, Russian political analyst Alexey Malashenko believes that Kiev has put the nail in the coffin of the post-Soviet space. 
A precedent was set in the post-Soviet space, when Georgia broke off relations with Russia. Now Ukraine is doing this as well. Will diplomatic relations with Russia be severed after the Verkhovna Rada votes for Poroshenko’s bill? I don’t think so. And there will be no visa regime yet. Visas are a separate deal. The termination of the friendship agreement can be seen as a formal step and an election campaign PR move by Poroshenko, Bondarenko told Nezavisimaya Gazeta. 
Associate Professor of the Russian State Humanitarian University, Expert of the Russian Council on International Affairs Alexander Gushchin told the newspaper, For Russia, there will be no special consequences, because Ukraine practically did not fulfill the accord. I think this is a step aimed at maintaining the tension. Kiev is calculating how the West will react to it. It will not lead to serious consequences, but will cause a serious effect. As for the future, one cannot exclude a severing of diplomatic relations. Railway communication might be terminated, and a visa regime is possible. But not now, he noted. 
Chief Researcher at the Dialogue of Civilizations Research Institute Alexey Malashenko told Nezavisimaya Gazeta he sees the implications of the situation differently. If you look at the post-Soviet space in general and Central Asia in particular, this can set some precedent for many people, he said, adding, In my opinion, this is the end of the post-Soviet space. This space is no more. You can only write about it in quotes. 
Kommersant: Blastoff of Soyuz-FG successful following October launch failure 
On Monday, the blastoff of the Soyuz MS-11 manned spacecraft was held at the Baikonur Cosmodrome, three crewmembers of which are expected to spend 194 days on the International Space Station (ISS). Despite the failed attempt in October, this time the lunch of the Soyuz-FG rocket was a success. At the same time sources told Kommersant that a couple of weeks ago Roscosmos replaced the Soyuz-FG originally intended for the launch with a similar one due to incompatibility of the configuration. 
The launch on Monday was the first after the accident that happened on October 11. The Soyuz-FG rocket with the Soyuz MS-11 spacecraft was launched from the first platform at the Baikonur Cosmodrome, the carrier’s crew separated regularly, after that, the ship with its crew consisting of Russian cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko, Canadian astronaut David St. Jacques, and American astronaut Anne McClain headed for the ISS. 
According to Kommersant, initially it was planned to use the Soyuz-FG No.69 missile for the blastoff. We began preparatory work with the rocket stages in late August. The ‘package’ was assembled before the accident on October 11, a source at the Baikonur Cosmodrome told Kommersant. However, in mid-November, it was decided to assemble a package with the Soyuz-FG No.67 rocket. This is not related to the causes of the October accident. Just the fact that a complete set was planned earlier does not correspond to the one needed to launch a manned spacecraft, the source told the newspaper. The source did not specify why incorrect equipment was found so close to the launch date. They probably forgot to take something into account when planning the launches and attaching rockets to certain payloads, the source said. 
The Progress Rocket Space Centre has already begun to manufacture three missiles, the first of which is expected to deliver the Soyuz MS-16 crew into orbit in the spring of 2020. 
Kommersant: Russia plans to supply Ansat helicopters to China 
Russian Helicopters (part of Rostec) will receive $120 mln for the direct sale of 20 Ansat aircraft to the Chinese Association of Emergency Medicine, the company told Kommersant. The producer is negotiating the supplies of another 50 helicopters to state and private customers in Asia, with total sales reaching $500 mln. Russian Helicopters also intends to open a service center in Thailand in addition to those already operating in China and Vietnam. 
The contract with the Association for the supply of helicopters with a medical module was signed at the International Air Show in Zhuhai, China in early November. The first deliveries will begin in 2019, and in 2020, the last aircraft will be delivered under the contract. The manufacturer noted that leasing companies are not participating in the deal. The aircraft was purchased directly. 
The company also said that certified service centers for Russian helicopters were opened in China and Vietnam, and a similar aftersales center in Thailand together with the Datagate company is planned. Singapore has a service center for PW207K engines used in the Ansat, and Vietnam has support facilities for VK-2500 engines mounted on the Mi-171A2 for the entire region, the producer said, noting cooperation with the Airod SDN BHD company in Malaysia for aftersales services. 
TASS is not responsible for the material quoted in these press reviews 
Ukrainian presidential election outcomes remain unpredictable, expert notes 
The latest polls suggest that Timoshenko is the frontrunner in Ukraine’s forthcoming presidential election 
KIEV, December 4. /TASS/. Results of the Ukrainian presidential elections, set to be held on March 31, 2019, are still very difficult to predict, said Irina Bekeshkina, Ukrainian sociologist, Head of the Democratic Initiatives Foundation. 
Unfortunately, even now we can see a real frenzy of populism, when (candidates) promise the moon, competing with each other in the impracticability of their pledges. The upcoming election outcome has never been so unpredictable, she said in an interview with Ukrainian online newspaper Ukrayinska Pravda (Ukrainian Truth) published on Tuesday. 
Given recent polls, it looks like Yulia Timoshenko is going to be one of the contenders in a (possible) second round, the expert added, pointing out that the situation with her key rival is constantly changing. As such, the announcement that Co-Chairman of the Opposition Block, Yuri Boiko, will merge with Vadim Rabinovich’s Za Zhittya party straightaway suggested that Boiko is going to be the second finalist. However, it is too early to draw any conclusions because the Opposition Block will nominate its candidate with the independent Yevgeny Murayev also grabbing away several much-needed percent, Bekeshkina stressed. 
The expert believes that chances of Civil Position Party leader Anatoly Gritsenko to make it to the second round have been significantly undermined by Andrei Sadovyi, leader of the Self-Reliance party, who will also participate in the presidential race. 
Bekeshkina noted that the outcome of the first round of elections would also depend greatly on whether showman Vladimir Zelensky, whose electorate is largely made up of the young people from the south and partly the east of the country, and musician Svyatoslav Vakarchuk, whose electorate is the youth from the central and the western parts of Ukraine, will join the race. There are a lot of questions now, upon which Pyotr Poroshenko’s chances, who will find it harder to enter the second round than to win it, depend significantly, the expert emphasized. 
The latest polls suggest that Timoshenko is the frontrunner in Ukraine’s forthcoming presidential election. Roughly nineteen (18.9) percent of those who’ve made their choice and plan to go out and vote are ready to support Timoshenko, a survey showed. That being said, Zelensky is backed by 10.7%, while Gritsenko and Poroshenko got 9.9% Boiko is backed by 9.8% 
Russian weapons highly competitive on world arms market Egyptian experts 
As for the Egyptian military hardware, it contains about a third of Russian-made weapons 
CAIRO, December 5. /TASS/. Russia has a strong competitive edge on the world arms market compared to other weapon manufacturers, Egyptian military experts told TASS at the first EDEX-2018 international arms show in Cairo on Wednesday. 
Russia’s participation in the exhibition is extremely important and it has the largest representation alongside the United States, Egyptian Infantry General Samir Farag said, commenting on the importance of Russia’s participation in the EDEX arms show. 
Today Russian-made weapons account for about a third of all the Egyptian military hardware, the general said. 
We have been dealing with them [the Russian weapons] for decades and their specifics are very suitable for the Egyptian soldier, Farag added. 
Compared to other similar armaments in the rest of the world, these weapons have some distinctive features and advantages, especially in the sphere of air defense, the Egyptian general said. 
No one will be able to challenge your air defense systems today, the general said. 
Speaking about modern armaments, which Egypt could buy from Russia, the Egyptian general noted S-400 Triumf air defense missile systems. 
I’m confident that in this area one should think precisely about these systems, he said. 
The Egyptian general also commented on recent reports in some Western media outlets claiming that Egypt might decide against purchasing Russian-made Kamov Ka-52 helicopters. 
All the military hardware is accepted and tested by the special committee and it doesn’t happen that we purchase something and then test it. All these helicopters have been tested at the highest level, the Egyptian general said. 
Other expert’s opinion 
Egyptian Air Force General, Adviser to the Nasser Military Academy Hisham al-Halabi noted Russia’s substantial representation at the EDEX. 
And this relates not so much to the participation itself but to the armaments displayed by Russia, first of all, the Ka-52 helicopter, the general said. 
The Russian weapons are highly competitive on the world market and your country has vast experience in their production, al-Halabi said. 
It is important to understand that our entire region has entered the arms race and that is why it is logical that Russia is seeking to gain a strong foothold in these conditions, the general said. 
EDEX-2018 
The EDEX-2018 has become the first arms exhibition of its kind not only in Egypt, which holds a leading place in the purchase of armaments in the region, but also on the entire African continent. The arms show that runs on December 3-5 has brought together 373 Egyptian and foreign companies engaged in the manufacture and delivery of modern security and defense technologies and systems from 41 countries. 
At the EDEX arms show, the Russian delegation is demonstrating the products of 11 large domestic producers of military hardware and equipment for all military branches. Russia is showcasing a full-size copy of the Ka-52 reconnaissance and attack helicopter. The display stand of Russia’s state arms seller Rosoboronexport features the mockups of Yak-130 combat trainers, Su-35 fighter jets, MiG-29M/M2 multirole frontline fighters, Mi-17, Mi-28NE, Mi-35, Mi-26 and Ansat helicopters. 
Russia is also demonstrating S-400 Triumf long-range air defense missile systems, Tor-M2E and Buk-M2E surface-to-air missile complexes, the Pantsyr-S1 air defense missile/gun system, and also Igla-S and Verba shoulder-launched missile complexes. 
The Russian pavilion is also demonstrating the T-90MS main battle tank, the BMP-3 infantry fighting vehicle, the Terminator tank support combat vehicle, the BTR-82A armored personnel carrier, Khrizantema-S and Kornet-E anti-tank systems, and also small arms and close-in weapons. 
Media: India about to lease another nuclear submarine from Russia 
Local media mentioned a Project-971 nuclear submarine, but the reports have not yet been officially confirmed 
NEW DELHI, December 5. /TASS/. New Delhi is about to make a deal with Moscow to lease another Project-971 nuclear submarine, which is supposed to replace the Chakra submarine (formerly the K-152 Nerpa), since its lease term will expire in the coming years, the India Today newspaper wrote. 
According to the newspaper, an Indian naval delegation has recently made a visit to Russia, where its members inspected two Akula-1 class submarines, the Bratsk and the Samara, laid up for a deep refit at the Zvezdochka shipyard in the Arctic port of Severodvinsk. The delegation also… discussed the lease of one of these submarines reportedly for $3.3 bln, India Today added. 
However, this information hasn’t been confirmed officially yet. 
India took a Project-971 nuclear-powered attack submarine (NATO reporting name: Akula-class) on a ten year lease in 2012 under a contract signed on December 30, 2011. 
PACE President offers condolences to passing of Russian human rights activist 
Liliane Maury-Pasquier stressed that Lyudmila Alekseeva has inspired generations of activists in Russia and abroad 
TASS, December 8. Liliane Maury-Pasquier, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE), paid tribute to Lyudmila Alekseeva, who died in Moscow on Saturday. 
Lyudmila Alexeeva moved us during her speech to the Assembly three years ago. Her strong message had come to us with the same strength that has inspired generations of activists in Russia and abroad, Pasquier said in a statement on the PACE website. 
Soviet dissident and Russian human rights activist Lyudmila Alekseeva, a member of the Russian Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights and the chairwoman of the Moscow Helsinki Group, died aged 91 in Moscow on Saturday. 
Alekseeva joined the human rights movement in 1966. In 1977, she was forced to emigrate from the Soviet Union. The dissident settled in the United States and authored some research into the history of dissident movement in the Soviet Union. Alekseeva returned to Russia in 1993 and three years later headed the oldest human rights organization - the Moscow Helsinki Group. In 2002, she joined the Russian Presidential Commission for Human Rights, which was transformed into the Russian Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights in 2004. 
Post-Soviet security bloc ready to organize humanitarian mission in Syria – Lavrov 
Accroding to Russian Foreign Minister, Moscow is discussing this with partners from Kazakhstan and other CSTO nations 
MOSCOW, December 9. /TASS/. The Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) is ready to organize a humanitarian mission in Syria, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in an interview with Kazakhstan’s Khabar news agency on Sunday. 
“As far as I’m concerned, it is an objective fact that some of our allies, including Kazakhstan and Armenia, are taking part both in peacekeeping missions that are not sanctioned by the United Nations (say, in Afghanistan) and in full-fleged United Nations missions (for instance in Kosovo), but take no part in the efforts towards stabilizing the situation in Syria,” he said. “In Afghanistan, it is a NATO operation. In Syria, we are ready to organize a CSTO humanitarian mission. The first steps in this direction are being made.” 
“Not long ago, we worked out a joint operation with our Armenian colleagues to deliver Armenian humanitarian assistance to Syria using Russian planes. I am convinced that Kazakhstan is also interested in participating in such humanitarian initiatives,” Lavrov noted. “We are discussing it with our partners from Kazakhstan and other CSTO nations.” 
“I don’t see why the CSTO flag should not be hoisted at command centers along with the national flags of those military forces, observers or police from the CSTO countries participating in a given peacekeeping operation,” he said. “I am confident there is nothing to be ashamed of about that; we always do our best to help the United Nations peacekeeping efforts.” 
“When we team up to resolve humanitarian problems not only around us, but also to help use our humanitarian possibilities in order to ease tensions in other parts of the world, I think our general authority, the reputation of our organization and each of its members will only expand,” he stressed. 
Film stars Thurman, Jovovich and Delon are honorary ambassadors of fencing 
The president of the International Fencing Federation stressed that each of them had contributed in the sport with their previous film roles 
PARIS, December 10. /TASS/. World’s legendary film stars Uma Thurman, Mila Jovovich and Alain Delon are the honorary ambassadors of the sport of fencing as they brought it closer to the youth making it more understandable, President of the International Fencing Federation (FIE) Alisher Usmanov told TASS. 
The French capital of Paris hosted this weekend the annual FIE Congress, which was also dedicated to the 105th anniversary of the world’s governing body of fencing. The honorary guests of the event in Paris included President of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) Thomas Bach, heads of National Olympic Committees (NOCs), sports ministers from around the globe as well as famous movie stars. 
These people are directly involved in the sport of fencing and must be viewed as the honorary ambassadors of this sport, Usmanov said in an interview with TASS. 
Hollywood actors Uma Thurman and Mila Jovovich, as well as world’s legendary actor Alain Delon of France, were among the guests in attendance at the FIE Congress in Paris. 
Each of them had contributed in our sport with their previous film roles making this sport closer to people and more understandable, Usmanov said. This is particularly important for the youth as they have a better perception of films and want to be more like their favorite film characters. 
Among their many famous film roles - Alain Delon displayed his fencing skills in ‘Zorro’ films in 1970s; Uma Thurman was brilliant in sword fights in Quentin Tarantino’s ‘Kill Bill’ films; and Mila Jovovich was fencing flawlessly in her role as Milady de Winter in 2011 screening of The Three Musketeers. 
Russian top brass says over 1,400 Syrian communities liberated from IS terror grip 
In total, 1,411 settlements were liberated during the operation with Syrian government troops and militia having retaken more than 96.5% of the country’s territory 
MOSCOW, December 11. /TASS/. More than 1,400 residential areas in Syria were freed from militant extremists of the Islamic State terror group (outlawed in Russia) during the period of Russia’s participation in the fighting, Head of the Russian National Defense Management Center Colonel General, Mikhail Mizintsev, said on Tuesday. 
One year ago on this day, the Russian armed forces successfully completed its operation of mopping up terror groups in the Syrian Arab Republic, including thousands of IS fighters. Only a few ragtag US-backed groups survived in the Trans-Euphrates region and near Al-Tanf. The remainders of the Jabhat al-Nusra terror group (outlawed in Russia) were blocked in the Idlib de-escalation zone. 
In total, 1,411 settlements were liberated during the operation with Syrian government troops and militia having retaken more than 96.5% of the country’s territory, Mizintsev told a joint meeting of the interdepartmental coordination of the Russian and Syrian headquarters for the return of refugees. 
He also noted that the completion of the operation has made it possible to significantly reduce the Russian Air Force group in Syria and start restoring peace there. 
In accordance with the UN Security Council Resolution 2254, which calls for a political settlement in Syria, a constitutional committee with the participation of the opposition and representatives of Syria’s entire multinational civil society is being shaped, Mizintsev stressed. 
First results of living tissue printing on orbital outpost to be unveiled in January 
The researchers are expected to get the material in late December 
MOSCOW, December 11. /TASS/. The first results of the experiment to print living tissues on the International Space Station (ISS) using the Invitro bioprinter will be released by late January, Invitro Projects Head, Managing Partner Yusef Khesuani told TASS on Tuesday. 
The biological material printed in outer space will return to Earth aboard the Soyuz MS-09 spacecraft on December 20, he said. 
On the 20th day [of December] in the evening, we will get this material and on December 21 we will carry out a primary analysis. Further on, we will see how the constructs gathered and how they behaved. I believe that we will get the primary results by late January, Khesuani said. 
As Russia’s Federal Space Agency Roscosmos said earlier, the experiment to print living tissues aboard the ISS using the 3D bioprinter was conducted by cosmonaut Oleg Kononenko. Specifically, the organic construct of the mouse’s thyroid gland has been created in the zero-gravity conditions, the Roscosmos press office earlier said. 
The Organ-Avt bioprinter developed to carry out the world’s first experiment for printing living tissues was delivered to the space station on December 3 aboard the manned Soyuz MS-11 spacecraft. 
The magnetic 3D-bioprinter has been devised to grow living tissues and eventually organs and it can also be used to study the influence of outer space conditions on living organisms during lengthy flights. 
The experiment has been devised by 3D Bioprinting Solutions, a bio-technical research laboratory, which is a Russian start-up and a subsidiary of Invitro company. 
The plans to deliver the bioprinter’s first copy failed after the aborted launch of the Soyuz-FG booster with the manned Soyuz MS-10 spacecraft from the Baikonur spaceport on October 11. 
The magnetic 3D-bioprinter project, which is being implemented by 3D Bioprinting Solutions, Roscosmos and Invitro, was launched in 2016. Under the project, the bioprinter has been created to print living tissues and organic constructs in the zero-gravity conditions. 
Austrian police cannot confirm accusations against Russian biathletes — spokesman 
Russian TV presenter Dmitry Guberniev said earlier that police have accused several Russian biathletes and coaches of violating anti-doping rules at the 2017 Biathlon World Championships 
VIENNA, December 13. /TASS/. Austria's Federal Police in Tirol does not have any information about accusations leveled against Russian biathletes over their alleged violation of anti-doping rules during the 2017 World Biathlon Championships in Hochfilzen, police spokesman Stefan Eder told TASS on Thursday. 
As of now, we have not received any informaiton on this matter from Hochfilzen, the spokesman said. He added that they might receive some information about accusations against Russian biathletes in the morning. 
The main office of Austria's Federal Police also told TASS that it cannot confirm anything at this point and recommended to wait until tomorrow. 
Russian TV presenter Dmitry Guberniev said earlier that police have accused several Russian biathletes and coaches of violating anti-doping rules at the 2017 Biathlon World Championships. 
Several hours ago Austrian police contacted the Russian national team. Here is the list of athletes, coaches, doctors and massage therapists who were accused of violating anti-doping rules during the 2017 World Championships in Hochfilzen, Guberniev said in a caption to a photo of the list posted on his Instagram account. Among athletes accused of violating anti-doping rules are 2014 Olympic champion Anton Shipulin, Evgeny Garanichev and Alexander Loginov. The list also includes biathletes Alexey Volkov, Irina Starykh, former coach of the Russian national team Alexander Kasperovich, doctors and massage therapists Artyom Kryntsilov, Alexander Selyavkin, Evgeny Shutov and Dmitry Topychkanov. 
Guverniev later told Match TV channel that those on the list will have to provide explanations to the police on Thursday. 
A source familiar with the matter told TASS that Austrian police did indeed visit the Russian national team. The source noted that nobody was detained and confirmed that Garanichev, Loginov, Starykh and Tipychkanov were currently in Hochfilzen. 
Germany views Nord Stream as economic project — cabinet spokesperson 
The European Parliament passed a resolution on Wednesday characterizing the Nord Stream 2 as a political project posing threat to Europe’s energy security 
BERLIN, December 14. /TASS/. Germany continues viewing the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project as an economic one, and Berlin's position has not changed despite the resolution adopted by the European Parliament, a cabinet spokesperson told TASS on Friday. 
Nothing has changed so far in Germany’s position. The Nord Stream 2 is an economic project in the first instance, and the federal government repeatedly highlighted that. However, this project also has a political component. The Cabinet of Ministers indicated in this regard that clarity is needed regarding Ukraine’s role as the transit country after 2019. This remains in force, the spokesperson said. 
The European Parliament passed a resolution on Wednesday characterizing the Nord Stream 2 as a political project posing threat to Europe’s energy security and calling for cancellation of the pipeline construction. 
About 300 km of pipes were already laid within the Nord Stream 2 framework, as reported at the turn of November. Both lines of the project are to be built by 2019 year-end. 
Russia to turn to OSCE over reports on BBC's trying to prove Moscow behind ‘Yellow Vests’ 
UK’s government media are seeking to picture grassroots riots over France’s domestic problems as the Kremlin’s meddling is inadmissible, Russia’s foreign ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said 
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova 
MOSCOW, December 16. /TASS/. Russia’s foreign ministry plans to turn to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) over media reports about BBC’s seeking to find evidence of Russia’s involvement in the ongoing protests in France, ministry’s spokeswoman, Maria Zakharova, said on Sunday. 
A number of media outlets reported earlier that in her communication with a stringer covering riots in France a BBC correspondent tried to find evidence of Russia’s involvement in the Yellow Vests movement. Grassroots protests triggered by the growth of gasoline prices, taxes and the cost of living have been rocking France since November 17. 
We will ask this question to international structures. Tomorrow we will refer a corresponding letter to the OSCE to draw its attention to that, she said, adding that the actions of the BBC journalists are seen as an absolutely appalling fact. 
It is the United Kingdom that keeps on saying that the Russian mass media, Russian television channels are indulging in propaganda but gives no facts to prove it, only saying that British public activists are filing complaints to Ofcom, a media regulator, and they have to react and reproach our mass media and journalists for alleged unprofessional behavior, Zakharova noted. Now I have a question to these British media regulators: what do they think about this compilation of facts journalists of their tele and radio companies are indulging in? 
Now it is not about double standards, it is not about politically motivated actions, it is about open propaganda. In this case, it is a flagrant compilation, an attempt to find puzzle pieces for a bigger picture. No doubt of that, she said. Now we see how journalists of the BBC corporation work. 
The Russian diplomat stressed that the fact that the UK’s government media are seeking to picture grassroots riots over France’s domestic problems as the Kremlin’s meddling is inadmissible in relations between allies. She drew attention to the fact that the United Kingdom is still a member of the European Union and shares a common foreign policy with other member nations. How can they do such things in respect of their own neighbor?, she exclaimed. 
Lavish financing is now allocated in Brussels to counteract some mythic Russian propaganda. So, I think this colossal money, at least a part of it, must go to counteract, for instance, BBC’s propaganda, she added. 
Kremlin: Situation with Jehovah’s Witnesses requires additional analysis 
In 2017, Russia’s Supreme Court declared Jehovah’s Witnesses to be an extremist organization and outlawed its activity throughout Russia, thereby upholding the Justice Ministry’s requests 
MOSCOW, December 18. /TASS/. Particular cases related to the Jehovah’s Witnesses religious organization outlawed in Russia will be studied in detail, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Tuesday. 
Peskov commented on complaints about persecution against the organization’s members, which human rights activists voiced to Russian President Vladimir Putin at the December 11 meeting of the Presidential Council for Civil Society and Human Rights. The Russian president noted that Jehovah’s Witnesses are also Christians and he did not understand why they were persecuted. 
Here we need to analyze each particular case, Peskov said, noting that at the council’s meeting the examples of particular situations were discussed. It is impossible here to solve this problem conceptually because there are various pros and cons, but an additional study on this issue will be carried out at least, he said. 
In April 2017, Russia’s Supreme Court declared Jehovah’s Witnesses to be an extremist organization and outlawed its activity throughout Russia, thereby upholding the Justice Ministry’s requests. The court declared the immediate shutdown of all 395 local chapters of Jehovah’s Witnesses in Russia and transferred the organization’s assets into state custody. 
Jehovah’s Witnesses is an international religious organization that supports offbeat views on the essence of the Christian faith and provides special interpretations of many commonly accepted notions. 
Police in Vilnius detain Russian national living in Lithuania 
Valery Ivanov is a well-known in Lithuania political writer 
VILNIUS, December 18. /TASS/. The Russian Embassy to Lithuania is trying to find out why Russian national Valery Ivanov residing in Lithuania was detained in Vilnius on Tuesday, the Embassy said on its website. 
The embassy is actively trying to clarify all circumstances related to the detention of a national of the Russian Federation by the Lithuanian police, the report said. The embassy said it was seeking an immediate meeting with the detained 71-year-old Russian national. 
Ivanov, born in Kaunas, is a well-known in Lithuania political writer. He only had time to write on his Facebook page that several people were trying to get into his apartment. I don’t know why they start persecuting me and what will happen to me now, he wrote. 
Over the recent years, Ivanov has led in Lithuania the Russian-Lithuanian-Polish non-governmental organization Unity, coming out in favor of restoring the USSR. The Lithuanian court convicted him for three years in jail for his activity. After having served his prison term, Ivanov wrote the book entitled Lithuanian Prison. 
Russian nuclear-powered missile cruiser enters Barents Sea for combat training missions 
The Russian Northern Fleet’s flagship heavy nuclear-powered missile cruiser Pyotr Veliky has entered the Barents Sea 
MOSCOW, December 19. /TASS/. The Russian Northern Fleet’s flagship heavy nuclear-powered missile cruiser Pyotr Veliky has entered the Barents Sea for accomplishing combat training missions, the Fleet’s press office reported on Wednesday. 
This is the warship’s first sortie in the new combat training period, the press office said. 
The cruiser’s crew will practice some elements of the surface ship’s readiness at sea and carry out an attack against a submarine with the firing of anti-ship missiles, the Northern Fleet’s press office said. 
The cruiser’s crew will perform the combat exercise with the practical weapon, striking the target whose role will be played by one of the vessels of the Northern Fleet’s submarine force, the press office said. 
After accomplishing its missions at sea, the Pyotr Veliky will return to the Fleet’s main naval base of Severomorsk. 
The Pyotr Veliky is the Russian Navy’s sole operational third-generation Project 1144 ‘Orlan’ heavy nuclear-powered missile cruiser. It was laid down at the Baltiysky Shipyard on August 25, 1986 and floated out on April 25, 1989. On April 18, 1998, the warship entered service with the Russian Navy and the St. Andrew’s naval flag was hoisted aboard it. 
Project 1144 ‘Orlan’ (NATO reporting name: Kirov class) battle cruisers are the Russian Navy’s first and sole nuclear-powered surface ships. The warships of this Project are the world’s largest non-carrier strike combat ships. 
China's Ganzhou Promotes Tourism in Hamburg 
HAMBURG, Germany, Dec. 20, 2018 /PRNewswire/ -- The local government of southeast China's Ganzhou City in Jiangxi Province and Ganzhou Tourism Development Committee held a city tourism promotion event in Germany's Hamburg. Known as the Orange Capital of the World and an ecologically advanced city, Ganzhou aims to draw more tourists and boost friendly exchanges with the German port city. 
Located on the coast of the North Sea, Hamburg is Germany's gateway to the world and a bridgehead for Sino-German cooperation to promote the Belt and Road Initiative. Ganzhou, on the other hand, is also an important city in the Belt and Road region, and launched its train service to Hamburg in 2017, opening a new chapter in economic and trade exchanges between the two places, said Guo Sufang, deputy mayor of Ganzhou. 
I hope that this promotion event will further promote the cooperation between the two cities and the two countries in the tourism industry, so that mutually beneficial and common development will be achieved, Guo added. 
Established in 1973, the Hamburg China Friendship Association is the oldest of its kind in the city, according to Dr. Jens-Christian Posselt, director of the association. Both Ganzhou and Hamburg are waterside cities, with the Ganjiang River winding through Ganzhou while Hamburg being a port city and known as the 'City of Bridges', he said. So he brought a Hamburg sailing boat model as a gift to the people of Ganzhou. May this sailing boat carry the friendship of Ganzhou and Hamburg people and sail afar, he added. 
A licensing ceremony was also held at the promotion event. Liu Wenyan, head of the Ganzhou Tourism Development Committee, offered licenses to German tourism agencies for qualifying for offering inbound tourism services into China. The two sides agreed to carry out in-depth cooperation in the joint development of the Ganzhou tourist route and better publicity of Ganzhou tourism. 
After the promotion event, attendees enjoyed a photo exhibition highlighting the features of Ganzhou as an old Chinese revolutionary base, cradle of the Hakka people, ancient Song Dynasty city in the south of the Yangtze River and an ecologically advanced city. 
WADA experts conclude second visit to Moscow Anti-Doping Lab 
The five-person delegation of experts arrived in the Russian capital on December 17 
NOVOGORSK /Moscow Region/, December 21. /TASS/. A delegation of experts from the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has completed its second visit to Russia to the Moscow Anti-Doping Laboratory, Russian Sports Minister Pavel Kolobkov said on Friday. 
The five-person delegation of experts led by independent expert Dr. Jose Antonio Pascual, who is a research scientist and academic in Barcelona, arrived in Moscow on December 17 to access data of the Moscow Anti-Doping Lab, as required by WADA’s Executive Committee decision of September 20. 
NOVOGORSK /Moscow Region/, December 21. /TASS/. A delegation of experts from the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has completed its second visit to Russia to the Moscow Anti-Doping Laboratory, Russian Sports Minister Pavel Kolobkov said on Friday. 
WADA experts have concluded today their second visit, Kolobkov said speaking at the ministry’s extended board meeting. Several technical issues remain to be settled. 
The experts are satisfied with the visit, Kolobkov said adding that they were planning to come back with another visit to the Moscow Anti-Doping Lab. 
We should receive by the yearend an official statement from WADA regarding another visit of independent experts to the Moscow Anti-Doping Laboratory. There will be another visit. 
The delegation of experts arrived in the Russian capital for work to retrieve data on doping samples analysis of Russian athletes for the period between 2011 and 2015, kept at the former facility of the Moscow Anti-Doping Lab. 
Granting access to LIMS (the Laboratory Information Management System) data is one of the key conditions for the reinstatement of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA). 
The previous visit of WADA experts to Moscow took place on November 28. 
Charges against feuding footballers reduced, but likely prison term unchanged, says lawyer 
Investigators have reduced the charges against Russian footballers Pavel Mamaev and Alexander Kokorin following the results of a medical examination of their victims 
MOSCOW, December 21. /TASS/. Investigators have reduced the charges against Russian footballers Pavel Mamaev and Alexander Kokorin following the results of a medical examination of their victims, Kokorin’s lawyer, Vyacheslav Barik, told TASS on Friday. 
Kokorin and Mamaev were earlier charged with hooliganism and battery for their involvement in several brawls in Moscow over two months ago. 
The medical expertise has established that the victims sustained light bodily harm, the injuries resulted in brief health problems, therefore the count of ‘battery’ has been altered to ‘premeditated infliction of light bodily injuries’, Barik stated. 
The count of hooliganism, which stipulates a prison term of up to seven years, remained in place. However, the count of premeditated infliction of light bodily injuries stipulates a prison term of up to two years, just like the count of battery. 
On October 8, FC Krasnodar midfielder Pavel Mamaev and FC Zenit striker Alexander Kokorin were reported to be the culprits behind two assaults in downtown Moscow. The first incident took place at around 8:30 a.m. Moscow time, when they attacked a driver of a Mercedes parked near the Peking Hotel in Moscow. 
They beat the man up, in addition to breaking one of the vehicle’s windows and damaging one of the car’s doors. The damaged vehicle belonged to Channel One TV presenter Olga Ushakova. 
Following that assault, the gang, made up of Kokorin’s brother Kirill and their friend Alexander Protasovitsky stopped in at a cafe on Bolshaya Nikitskaya Street in downtown Moscow, where they proceeded to beat up an individual, who turned out to be the director of a department in the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Denis Pak. Another individual on hand at the establishment who witnessed the incident, Director of the NAMI State Research Center Sergei Gaisin, tried to calm the young people down, but was struck in the face as well by one of the perpetrators. 
The Moscow police detained the footballers on charges of battery and hooliganism. Moscow’s Tverskoy District Court ruled later in October to place them in pretrial custody for two months, until December 8. 
The Tverskoy District Court of Moscow ruled two weeks ago to prolong the custody term for Mamaev and Kokorin until February 8, 2019. 
Final farewell: A tribute to those we lost in 2018 
A look back at notable people who have left us forever in 2018 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 19 
Irish singer and leader of The Cranberries Dolores O'Riordan died at 46 on January 15 
Swedish founder of the Ikea furniture chain, Ingvar Kamprad passed away on January 27. He was 91 
Hubert de Givenchy, founder of the eponymous French fashion house, died on March 10. He was 91 
Renowned Russian actor and theater director Oleg Tabakov died aged 82 on March 12 
Professor Stephen Hawking, one of the world's finest scientific minds, died on March 14 at the age of 76 
Award-winning director and screenwriter Kira Muratova died on June 6 at the age of 83 
Prominent Russian conductor Gennady Rozhdestvensky passed away on June 16. He was 87 
George H.W. Bush, the 41st president of the United States, died on November 30. He was 94 
Russian human rights activist Lyudmila Alexeyeva died at the age of 91 on December 8 
The scientist, the singer, the director, the designer... and others who have left us forever in the past 12 months. Though they may have left us in 2018, they're legacy will continue to live on for time eternal. A look back at notable people who no longer with us. 
Ukraine’s martial law turns out to be PR stunt, expert says 
The expert believes that initially, Ukraine's authorities wanted to prove that the martial law was important as they sought to delay presidential election and control the situation ahead of the vote 
KIEV, December 26. /TASS/. Ukraine’s martial law, which was declared in some of the country’s regions a month ago and expired on Wednesday, turned out to be a PR stunt, Head of the Ukrainian Institute for Analysis and Political Management Ruslan Bortnik told TASS. 
Over the past month, we watched an imitation of martial law in Ukraine, it did not make the Ukrainian Armed Forces stronger though it did become a shock for the country’s economy, first and foremost, because of a drop in investments and currency fluctuations. It also deepened the crisis of trust between the president the oligarchs, as well as between the president and the parliamentary parties, the expert said. 
According to Bortnik, initially, the Ukrainian authorities wanted to prove that the martial law declaration was important, as they sought to, first, delay the presidential election, second, to take control of the situation ahead of the election and also of the election money, particularly those allocated by oligarchs. Since they failed to achieve these goals, martial law turned into a PR stunt as they desperately tried to come up with some reasons to justify it by making the military train, setting up checkpoints and making political statements, thus imitating martial law to regain their position in the information field, he noted. 
The attempt proved futile and as a result, President Pyotr Poroshenko will face the most damage. The main outcome is that the people’s confidence in the president fell further. According to pollsters, 60% of Ukrainians believe that the head of state just tried to disrupt the election. Western partners also did not appreciate the move, so Poroshenko now has less chances to be re-elected than he did before, Bortnik said. 
The expert doubts that a new martial law will be declared in Ukraine in the near future. Parliament members have pointedly gone on vacation, thought martial law stipulates that the parliament must continue its sessions. There is nobody to make a decision on extending martial law or declaring a new one, he said. 
Ukraine’s martial law 
On November 26, Ukraine’s Verkhovna Rada (parliament) approved President Pyotr Poroshenko’s decree declaring a 30-say martial law in the Vinnitsa, Lugansk, Nikolayev, Odessa, Sumy, Kharkov, Chernigov, Donetsk, Zaporozhye and Kherson regions, as well as in Ukraine’s territorial waters in the Sea of Azov. 
An incident in the Kerch Strait was used as an excuse for the move. On November 25, three Ukrainian navy ships illegally crossed Russia’s border and tried to carry out some illegal actions in Russian territorial waters on Sunday night. They ignored legitimate demands to stop issued by vessels belonging to the FSB Border Service and the Black Sea Fleet and continued maneuvering dangerously. In order to stop the Ukrainian ships, weapons had to be used. The three vessels were detained in Russian territorial waters. Three Ukrainian military servicemen suffered light wounds and were provided with medical assistance. A criminal investigation has been opened into the border incident. The 24 Ukrainian crew members have been arrested for two months for violating the Russian state border. If found guilty, they may face up to six years in prison. 
Medicines, books brought to Syrians in Idlib, Hama, Damascus — Russia’s Defense Ministry 
Officers from the Russian reconciliation center delivered bread and medicine to Syrians, among other things 
MOSCOW, December 26. /TASS/. The Russian Сenter for reconciliation of the conflicting sides in Syria have carried out three humanitarian missions in the regions of Idlib, Hama and Rif Dimashq, the center’s head Lieutenant General Sergei Solomatin told reporters on Wednesday. 
In the past 24 hours, the Russian center for reconciliation of the conflicting sides has carried out three humanitarian operations in Abu-ad-Duhur in the Idlib province, Skalbia in the Hama province and the Hirdjilla refugee camp in the Rif Dimashq province, handing out one tonne of fresh bread, 20 kilograms of candy sets, 300 kilograms of medication, 30 kilograms of children’s vitamins, along with books and stationery with a total weight of 45 kilograms, Solomatin said. 
The center continues restoring infrastructure and creating conditions for the return of refugees. As of December 25, 2018, as many as 30,920 houses have been rebuilt along with 714 educational and 122 healthcare facilities, while 951 kilometers of motorways have been repaired. 
The Russian reconciliation center continues to fulfill assigned tasks after the completion of the military campaign in Syria. The center’s officers regularly travel around the country's liberated areas to assess the humanitarian situation. The main efforts of the Russian military are now focused on assistance to the refugees returning to their homes and evacuation of civilians from de-escalation zones. 
Foreign satellites launched from Vostochny spaceport reach designated orbits 
The Fregat upper stage delivered 26 foreign satellites and two Kanopus-V remote sensing satellites to the low earth orbit 
VOSTOCHNY SPACEPORT/Amur Region/, December 27. /TASS/. Small satellites of the United States, Japan, Spain, the South African Republic and Germany launched by the Soyuz-2.1a carrier rocket from the Vostochny spaceport on Thursday have been placed into designated orbits, Glavkosmos, an operator of commercial missions, said. 
The Fregat upper stage delivered 26 foreign satellites and two Kanopus-V remote sensing satellites to the low earth orbit. After the flights program the Fregat booster will sink in the non-navigable area of the Pacific Ocean, the operator said. 
The company said Japan’s GRUS spacecraft, Germany’s iSAT, UWE-4, Sparrow, and eight US Lemur satellites separated from the Frigat booster between 7.33 a.m. and 7.50 a.m. Moscow Time on the orbits at the height of nearly 585 kilometers. 
Spain’s Lume-1 satellite, the South African Republic’s ZACube-2 and 12 US Dove satellites also separated from the upper stage at between 9.13 a.m. and 9.43 a.m. local time on the orbits at the height of nearly 495 kilometers. 
Later, the small spacecraft will be managed by the customer companies of the launch services, the operator said. 
The Soyuz-2.1a carrier rocket was launched from the Vostochny spaceport at 5.07 a.m. Moscow time. This was the fourth launch from the Vostochny spaceport in Russia's Far East. 
IBSF Independent Panel to hear Alexander Zubkov’s doping case on January 3 
According to earlier reports, the panel is set to hear on January 3 cases of three Russian athletes Alexander Kasjanov, Aleksei Pushkarev and Ilvir Khuzin 
MOSCOW, December 28. /TASS/. An independent disciplinary panel of the International Federation of Bobsleigh and Skeleton (IBSF) is set to review on January 3 a case of President of the Russian Bobsleigh Federation (RBF) Alexander Zubkov, who is barred from attending international tournaments as an official due to alleged anti-doping rules violations at 2014 Olympics. 
According to reports earlier in the day, the independent disciplinary panel is set to hear on January 3 cases of three Russian athletes Alexander Kasjanov, Aleksei Pushkarev and Ilvir Khuzin. 
My case will be also reviewed on January 3, Zubkov told TASS. I will be attending the hearing. 
Two weeks ago, the IBSF ruled for a temporary suspension of five Russian athletes, including President of the Russian Bobsleigh Federation Zubkov saying in its statement that the banned athletes are Alexander Zubkov, Alexey Voevoda, Alexander Kasjanov, Aleksei Pushkarev and Ilvir Khuzin. 
Zubkov wrapped up with his sports career in 2014 and is currently holding the post of the president of the Russian Bobsleigh Federation. The IOC Disciplinary Commission, chaired by Denis Oswald, announced last year that Zubkov was guilty of anti-doping rules violations. 
The Oswald-led commission ruled to annul his results from the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, namely the gold in the two-man’s bobsleigh event and the gold in the four-man’s bobsleigh event. The IOC commission also ordered a life-timer ban for Zubkov from all Olympic activities. 
Zubkov appealed the decision with the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS) in Switzerland’s Lausanne and it was partly upheld as the Swiss-based court ruled against his life-time ban. 
Death toll in gas explosion in Russia’s Urals city grows to 3 - rescuers 
The gas explosion is believed to be a key cause of the accident, the Federal Security Service’s branch in the Chelyabinsk Region said 
CHELYABINSK, December 31. /TASS/. The death toll in a gas explosion in a house in Russia’s Urals city of Magnitogorsk has grown to three, the Crisis Management Center of the Russian Emergencies Ministry’s regional branch said on Monday. 
As of 9.50 a.m. (4:50 GMT) six people have been pulled out of the rubble, three died, three were injured, including a child, the statement said. 
The gas explosion is believed to be a key cause of the accident, the Federal Security Service’s branch in the Chelyabinsk Region said. 
An entrance hall in the apartment building collapsed. The rescue and search effort is underway, involving 469 personnel and 66 pieces of equipment. 
The fate of 79 people remains unknown, Deputy Governor of the Chelyabinsk Region Oleg Klimov said. 
Russian Health Minister Veronika Skvortsova is heading to Magnitogorsk at the instruction of Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
World experts to discuss IT technologies at CEBIT Russia in Skolkovo June 25-27, 2019 
The organizers have changed the format of the event to hold it in mid-summer. This will allow for holding some events outdoors 
MOSCOW, January 1. /TASS/. Russian and international experts will discuss information and telecommunication technologies at one of the world’s largest international exhibitions CEBIT Russia, which the technopark Skolkovo will host on June 25-27, 2019, the Skolkovo Foundation’s press-service said. 
The organizers have changed the format of the event to hold it in mid-summer. This will allow for holding some events outdoors, the news release says. 
CEBIT is one of the world’s oldest and largest telecommunications exhibitions. Originally the company Deutsche Messe AG held it in Hannover each spring. Several years ago a number of CEBIT’s industry-related theme sections were integrated with the world’s largest industrial exhibition Hannover Messe. 
Against the backdrop of great demand for CEBIT themes in the emerging markets the brand is bound to meet with growing support in Russia. The existing sections - the exhibition platform and business program - will be complemented by a special site for informal meetings between visitors to and participants in CEBIT Russia, the news release runs. 
The Skolkovo technopark’s CEO Renat Batyrov said the CEBIT brand would help the Russian event serve as another link of cooperation with foreign partners. 
Our joint project with the technopark Skolkovo - CEBIT Russia - has good chances to become one of the leading IT events, because at the moment our team can focus entirely on preparations for the Moscow debut. Partnership with Skolkovo is opening up vast growth opportunities for CEBIT as a brand, the news release quotes Deutsche Messe board member Andreas Gruchow as saying. 
About the company and foundation 
Deutsche Messe AG is one of the world’s largest organizers of major industrial exhibitions in Germany and other countries, including GeMAT, Domotex, Hannover Messe, Interschutz, EuroBLECH and others. 
The foundation Skolkovo is a non-commercial organization established in September 2010. Its goal is to create a friendly environment for enterprise and research into such fields as energy effectiveness and energy saving, nuclear, space, biomedical and strategic computer technologies and software. The foundation governs the innovation center Skolkovo. 
Senior Japanese, Russian diplomats to hold consultations on peace treaty 
The consultations are expected on January 15, Japanese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Takeshi Osuga said 
MOSCOW, January 14./TASS/. Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Japan Takeo Mori and his Russian counterpart Igor Morgulov will hold consultations on Tuesday, January 15, in the furtherance of the foreign ministers’ talks on a peace treaty, Japanese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Takeshi Osuga told journalists on Monday. 
It was agreed that tomorrow Mr. Mori and Mr. Morgulov will have consultations. It was also agreed that the next ministerial level meeting will be held on the sidelines of the Munich Security Conference if both foreign ministers attend that conference, Osuga said. 
He also said Tokyo wants to work with Russia to step up efforts towards reaching an agreement on the issue of a peace treaty, as the leaders of the two countries agreed at their meeting in Buenos Aires in December 2018. Osuga declined, however, to give forecasts as to when such an agreement could be reached, confirming the aim of signing a peace treaty. 
Russia and Japan have been in talks to sign a peace treaty since the mid-20th century. The main stumbling block to achieving this is the ownership of the Southern Kuril Islands. After the end of World War II, the Kuril Islands were incorporated into the Soviet Union. However, the ownership of Iturup, Kunashir, Shikotan Islands and the Habomai Islands is being challenged by Japan. Russia’s Foreign Ministry has stated on numerous occasions that Russia’s sovereignty over the islands is beyond doubt. 
In 1956, the Soviet Union and Japan signed a joint declaration on ceasing the state of war and restoring diplomatic and consular relations, but no peace treaty has been signed so far. 
Russian canoeist Shtokalov keeps waiting for IOC to hand him 2016 Olympics bronze 
The 2016 Summer Olympic Games bronze then went to Moldova’s Sergei Tarnovski, who was later disqualified after his doping tests proved positive for performance enhancing drugs 
MOSCOW, January 15. /TASS/. Russian canoeist Ilia Shtokalov told TASS on Tuesday that the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is still unable to find an opportunity of handing him the bronze medal of the 2016 Olympics. 
At the 2016 Summer Olympic Games in Brazil’s Rio de Janeiro, Shtokalov finished fourth in men’s singles 1,000m sprint. The bronze went to Moldova’s Sergei Tarnovski, who was later disqualified after his doping tests proved positive for performance enhancing drugs. 
Tarnovski filed an appeal against his disqualification with the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS), but the Swiss-based court rejected the appeal on July 11, 2018. In August 2018 the IOC announced its decision to award the 2016 Olympics bronze to Shtokalov and offered the Russian athlete to choose the date and place, where the medal would be handed over to him. 
The saga with the medal’s return continues and the award has not been yet given back, Shtokalov said in an interview with TASS. The International Olympic Committee is still undecided on the date for the awarding ceremony although almost half a year has already passed. 
I receive all information via the Russian Olympic Committee, the 32-year-old Russian sprint canoeist said. 
As far as I know, a request was submitted with the IOC in September and a statement in response said that the International Olympic Committee is deciding on the date. Since then the IOC is mum, Shtokalov added. 
The 2016 Olympic gold in men’s singles canoeing 1,000m sprint went to Germany’s Sebastian Brendel and the silver was packed by Brazilian canoeist Isaquias Queiroz. 
US categorical stance on INF remains unchanged — Russian diplomat 
GENEVA, January 15./TASS/. No progress has been reached on the INF Treaty issue after consultations of Russia and the US in Geneva due to Washington’s categorical position, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov told reporters after the talks. 
Generally, we have to state that there is no progress. The US has frozen in its position of uncompromising and categorical demands to Russia, he said. According to Ryabkov, these demands are not substantiated by context and contain no elements of novelty that could allow us to expect rapprochement, he added. 
We believe that Russia strictly complies with the treaty, while the United States exacerbates tensions and is reluctant to listen to our arguments, Ryabkov said. After the Geneva contacts we can see the United States’ clear intention to ruin the treaty, he stressed. 
He emphasized that the responsibility for this is fully with the US side, no matter how much the colleagues from Washington would try to ascribe to Russia actions not fitting within the terms of the treaty. 
Russian-Us consultations on the INF Treaty continued more than two hours on Tuesday. The Russian delegation was led by Ryabkov, while the US delegation - by Under Secretary of State for Arms Control and International Security Andrea Thompson. 
US President Donald Trump said on October 20, 2018, that Washington would withdraw from the INF Treaty because Russia was violating the terms of the agreement. 
US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said after a NATO ministerial meeting on December 4 that his country would stop fulfilling its liabilities under the INF Treaty unless Russia returned to full and verifiable compliance with it within 60 days. Russian President Vladimir Putin said on the following day that the US side had provided no evidence to prove Russia’s alleged violations of the treaty. He stressed that Russia is against dismantling this treaty but will have to react correspondingly if the United States withdraws from it. 
Dakar Rally drama: Dashing over the sand dunes 
The 41st edition of the Dakar Rally, the world’s toughest offroad race comprising buggies, truck, motorcycles and rally cars is underway in Peru 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 12 
An aerial view of the arrival camping during the first stage of the Dakar Rally 2019, between Lima and Pisco, in Peru, January 7 
KTM rider Oscar Romero Montoya of Spain, Husqvarna rider Fausto Mota of Spain and KTM rider Loic Minaudier of France race their motorbikes during stage six of the Dakar Rally between Arequipa and San Juan de Marcona, Peru, January 13 
A general view of the second stage of the Dakar Rally, between Pisco and San Juan de Marcona, in Peru 
Stephane Peterhansel and David Castera in the Mini of the X-Raid Mini JCW Team navigating through the dunes during stage six of the Dakar Rally, between Arequipa and San Juan de Marcona, Peru, January 13 
Kamaz truck driver Eduard Nikolaev, of Russia, refreshes at a stop during the stage eight of the Dakar Rally between San Juan de Marcona and Pisco, Peru, January 15 
Driver Carlos Sainz and co-driver Lucas Cruz, both from Spain, race their Mini across the dunes during the second stage of the Dakar Rally between Pisco and San Juan de Marcona, Peru, January 8 
Cyril Despres of X-Raid MINI JCW Team races during stage six of the Dakar Rally from Arequipa to San Juan de Marcona, Peru 
Luciano Benavides of Argentina rides his KTM motorbike followed by a TV helicopter during stage six of the Dakar Rally between Arequipa and San Juan de Marcona, Peru 
Ariel Mattarucco of Argentina rides his Yamaha quad during the stage six of the Dakar Rally between Arequipa and San Juan de Marcona, Peru 
Toyota driver Ronan Chabot, of France, and co-driver Gilles Pillot, of France, try to figure out the way during the stage six of the Dakar Rally between Arequipa and San Juan de Marcona, Peru 
Nasser Al-Attiyah of Toyota Gazoo Racing SA races during stage four of the Dakar Rally from Arequipa to Tacna, Peru 
A man leans against his motorbike as he watches competitors pass during the stage eight of the Dakar Rally between San Juan de Marcona and Pisco, Peru 
The 41st edition of the Dakar Rally, the world’s toughest offroad race comprising buggies, truck, motorcycles and rally cars is underway in Peru. It is the eleventh successive year that the event is held in South America. This year, it is being contested from January 6th to 17th. See the best images from one of the world's toughest race. 
Specialists will try to regain control over Spekr-R radio telescope on January 21 
Science advisor to the Roscosmos's chief Alexander Bloshenko said the distance to the Spektr-R radio telescope will be at around 300,000 km on Monday, January 21 
MOSCOW, January 16. /TASS/. Specialists will try once again to regain control over Spektr-R radio telescope on January 21 when the distance to the apparatus will be minimal, science advisor to the Roscosmos's chief Alexander Bloshenko told TASS on Wednesday. 
The next step is to repeat today's program on Monday when the distance to the spacecraft will be minimal. The distance currently stands at around 300,000 km, Bloshenko said. 
He noted that on Wednesday, specialists from NPO Lavochkin and Russian Space Systems tried to regain control over the radio telescope from the Medvezhyi Ozera station. Unfortunately, the result was negative, Bloshenko said. 
Attempts made on Monday and Tuesday were also unsuccessful. 
On January 11, problems with Spektr-R on January 11 were reported by the media. Russian Academy of Sciences member and chief of the Astrospace Center of the Lebedev Physics Institute (RadioAstron project client) Nikolai Kardashov told TASS that the signal from the space apparatus continued to be received but there were problems with controlling the satellite. Roscosmos later told the media that space satellites control group specialists were trying to eliminate the satellite’s glitches. Also, the space corporation recalled that the radio telescope Spektr-R had exceeded its expected life cycle by 2.5 times. 
Kiev court’s sentence for Yanukovich will be legally null and void, lawyer says 
In late 2016, a criminal case was launched against the former president, who was accused of high treason 
KIEV, January 23. /TASS/. The sentence for former Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich due to be declared by Kiev’s Obolonsky district court on Thursday will be legally null and void, his lawyer Vitaly Serdyuk told TASS. 
Any sentence, which the court will announce tomorrow, will be legally null and void as the court has violated the basis of criminal procedures in Ukraine in a deliberate and politically motivated way, the lawyer said. 
He stressed that the Yanukovich case had been heard without the former president’s participation. The court had earlier refused to consider the lawyer’s evidence, including the conclusions by the most reputable experts from the United States, Europe and Ukraine. 
Besides, the sentence will be null and void as the court had refused to question the ex-president during the debates, listen to his last plea and also rudely violated the procedure to announcing the verdict. Most importantly, President Yanukovich had not been invited for the court session on the verdict and the agenda had not been sent to us. No one had even called [the lawyer] and this information emerged in Internet news, Serdyuk said. 
According to the lawyer, this is done with the goal not to allow the attorneys to take part in the court session. The notification should have been made in line with the procedure of international legal assistance, at least three days in advance and in a written form. The court ignored even this, he stressed. 
This is done at the instructions of the Ukrainian head of state in order to speed up the announcement of the sentence, Serdyuk said, noting that despite all obstacles Yanukovich’s lawyers will take part in Thursday’s session. 
The lawyer also expects that the procedure of declaring the sentence is not expected to be lengthy as the authorities want this to be done as soon as possible. This should be a not guilty sentence as the lawyers have given all evidence in the case files, he noted. 
Earlier on Wednesday, Kiev’s Obolonsky district court said that on January 24 a sentence on the case would be declared. Earlier, 89 hearings on this case had been held, according to Aver Lex lawyers’ association. The prosecutors demand sentencing Yanukovich to 15 years in jail. 
Yanukovich case 
Yanukovich was ousted in a coup d’etat in Kiev in February 2014. Ukraine’s parliament, the Verkhovna Rada, decided to relieve him from his duties and set early presidential election. This came in violation of the constitution, which clearly defines the conditions for an early termination of the president’s powers. Yanukovich was forced to leave Kiev and later the country amid threat to his personal security. 
Amid the conflict of law over Yanukovich’s status, the new authorities had been unable to launch prosecution against him. Only in October 2016, a legal procedure was completed to strip Yanukovich of his presidential title based on the Rada’s special law. A month later a criminal case was launched against the former president, who was accused of high treason, complicity in deliberate acts carried out with the goal of changing the state border and complicity in conducting an aggressive war. 
Putin conveys condolences to Philippine leader over terrorist attack 
Russia shares the grief of relatives and friends of those killed and wishes a speedy recovery for those injured, the president said 
MOSCOW, January 27. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin voiced condolences to Philippines President Rodrigo Duterte over a deadly terrorist attack in the country’s south, a telegram published on the Kremlin website on Sunday said. 
A crime committed against civilians who gathered for a church service is shocking by its cynicism and cruelty. I expect that its perpetrators and masterminds will get a punishment they deserve. I would like to confirm readiness for further building up cooperation with Philippine partners in the fight against all forms and manifestations of a terrorist threat, the telegram said. 
Russia shares the grief of relatives and friends of those killed and wishes a speedy recovery for those injured, the president said. 
The terrorist attack occurred on Sunday morning after a church service at the Jolo Cathedral in Sulu province. At least 27 people were killed in twin blasts, including seven military and 20 civilians, and another 77 were wounded. 
Painting by Russian artist Arkhip Kuindzhi stolen from Moscow’s Tretyakov Gallery 
An unidentified person has stolen painting Ai Petri. Crimea 
MOSCOW, January 27. /TASS/. A painting by famous Russian landscape painter Arkhip Kuinzhi has been stolen from Moscow’s Tretyakov Gallery. Russia’s ministry of culture has confirmed the loss of painting, the ministry’s press service told TASS on Sunday, citing director of the ministry’s museums department Vladislav Kononov. 
The fact of the absence of the Ai Petri painting and the presence of a big number of policemen is confirmed, he said. 
We are checking information about the loss of one of Kuindzhi’s paintings from the Russian Museum’s collection that was displayed at the State Tretyakov Gallery, he said. 
Official comments will be issued by the Tretyakov Gallery’s press service and the police, he adde. 
Arkhip Kuindzhi (1842-1910), an outstanding landscape painter of the second half of the 19th century. He created a special type of romantic landscape based on a realistic perception of the world transformed by the artist’s personal touch. 
The exhibition at the Tretyakov Gallery offers more than 180 of his paintings from the collections of the Gallery, the Russian Museum, as well as from the collections of 19 regional museums and from museums of the former Soviet republics. The exhibition was opened on October 6, 2017 to be closed on February 17. 
US lifts sanctions from Rusal, En+, EuroSibEnergo 
The US Department of Treasury also pointed out that all sanctions imposed on Oleg Deripaska remained in force 
WASHINGTON, January 28. /TASS/. The US Department of Treasury on Sunday lifted sanctions imposed earlier on Rusal, En+ and EuroSibEnergo, it said in a statement. 
The US Department of the Treasury’s Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) today lifted sanctions imposed on En+ Group plc (En+), UC Rusal plc (Rusal), and JSC EuroSibEnergo (ESE), following an earlier notification submitted to Congress on December 19, 2018, the document reads. 
It stressed that under the terms of their removal from OFAC’s List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons the companies have reduced Oleg Deripaska’s direct and indirect shareholding stake in these companies and severed his control over them. 
The statement noted that this move ensures that the majority of directors on the En+ and Rusal boards will be independent directors - including US and European persons - who have no business, professional, or family ties to Deripaska or any other entities or individuals sanctioned by the US. 
The US Department of Treasury also pointed out that all sanctions imposed on Deripaska remained in force. 
Risen Energy's 40MW photovoltaic power station project in Kazakhstan connects to the grid 
The facility is expected to drive the growth of clean energy in the Central Asian country 
NINGBO, China, Jan. 31, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Risen Energy Co., Ltd. announced recently that its 40MW photovoltaic power station project in Kazakhstan has been formally connected to the grid. As the first privately-owned enterprise investing in the construction of photovoltaic power stations in Kazakhstan, the implementation of the project is of milestone significance for the solar panel maker's global roadmap. 
The facility, located in Gulshat, Aktogay District, Karaganda Region of Kazakhstan, has selected 325W Poly 1500VDC polycrystalline modules for their ability to ensure the long-term and stable operation of the station to the maximum extent possible. With the successful grid connection, the power station is expected to generate 50 million kilowatt-hours of electricity per year, providing continuous clean power to local households. 
In order to successfully achieve the construction of the power station in Kazakhstan, Risen Energy had to overcome a series of obstacles including the language barrier, cold weather, difficulty in assuring the needed supply of materials, power grid design, among other factors that hobbled the progress of the project. Thanks to the rich project experience accumulated by the overseas project development team over the years, the company prevailed by insisting on orderly construction despite the severe cold, ensuring the smooth completion of each aspect of the project. 
Risen Hong Kong general manager Champion Yuan said, The project held its groundbreaking ceremony in June 2018 and connected to the grid in December, fully reflecting the strength and efficiency of Risen Energy's workforce. As a result of designing and building the 40MW power plant, we have a comprehensive understanding of the market and regulatory environment in Kazakhstan. The replicable construction experience is expected to help overseas teams to better participate in the development of follow-up projects. We also hope to use this as an opportunity to help more Chinese brands effortlessly enter the Kazakhstan market, share in a piece of the pie, and contribute China's prowess across the sector to the cause of global green development. 
Risen Energy, based on its globalization strategy, has already staked out other projects in Kazakhstan and will move on to the construction phase at a later stage. In the future, the emerging markets that are targeted by the One Belt, One Road initiative, the Chinese government's program to build trade routes along the ancient Silk Road, can expect to benefit from a continued effort to construct efficient and high-performing photovoltaic power stations, further stimulating the potential to develop and utilize clean energy. 
China urges Russia, US to mediate differences on INF Treaty, says foreign ministry 
Beijing regrets Washington’s decision to suspend its liabilities under the Treaty 
BEIJING, February 2. /TASS/. Beijing opposes the US’ unilateral withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF Treaty) and urges Moscow and Washington to mediate differences. According to the statement made by the Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesman Geng Shuang released on Saturday, Beijing regrets Washington’s decision to suspend its liabilities under the Treaty. 
China opposes the United States’ move to denounce the treaty and urges the US and Russia to properly settle the differences through an efficient dialogue, the statement runs. The US’ unilateral withdrawal from the Treaty may have a whole number of implications, China will closely monitor the developments, the diplomat noted. 
On Friday, US President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said that Washington would suspend its liabilities under the INF Treaty starting February 2 and would quit it within six months if Russia fails to comply with its demands. The US accused Russia of violating the treaty for the first time in July 2014. Since then, Washington has been repeating its claims on many occasions, while Moscow has been rejecting them and advancing counter-claims concerning the implementation of the treaty by the US side. 
The INF Treaty was signed between the former Soviet Union and the United States on December 8, 1987 and entered into force on June 1, 1988. It covered deployed and non-deployed ground-based short-range missiles (from 500 to 1,000 kilometers) and intermediate-range missiles (from 1,000 to 5,500 kilometers). 
Detained Russian sailors placed under arrest in Cabo Verde - Russian embassy 
According to the embassy, the Russian sailors are suspected of trafficking nine tonnes of cocaine 
RABAT, February 3. /TASS/. Eleven Russian sailors who were detained in Cabo Verde last week have placed under arrest, a spokesman for the Russian embassy in that country told TASS on Sunday. 
A court session has been held. The court sanctioned the arrest of the sailors for the period of investigation. When it is over, official charges will be brought. So far, there are no official charges from Cabo Verde’s authorities, he said. 
The Russian sailors are currently kept at the St. Martin prison in the city of Praia, the diplomat said. They have been provided with a lawyer and an interpreter for a period of investigation and trial. 
The ship with the Russian sailors was flying the flag of Panama. It was detained at the port of Praia. According to the Russian embassy in Cabo Verde, the Russian sailors are suspected of trafficking nine tonnes of cocaine. 
Netanyahu says Iran controls Lebanese government through Hezbollah 
TELL AVIV, February 3. /TASS/. Iran controls the Lebanese government via the Hezbollah movement, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said on Sunday. 
Iran has proxies. One of them is Hezbollah. Hezbollah just joined the government of Lebanon. That's a misnomer; they actually control the government of Lebanon. It means that Iran controls the government of Lebanon, Netanyahu’s office quoted him as saying at a meeting with a delegation of UN ambassadors who arrived in Israel to make a trip of the northern border. 
It was Netanyahu’s first commentary following the formation of a new Lebanese government next Thursday. 
A great shift has taken place in the Middle East. That shift is the rise of the aggressive theocracy of Iran that seeks to conquer the Middle East, eliminate Israel and dominate many other parts of the world, the Israeli prime minister said and asked the UN ambassadors to convey the message that Israel will stop all the aggression; from Lebanon or from Syria or from Iran itself. 
We are committed to preventing this aggression, and in so doing we're not only protecting Israel itself, but also protecting our neighbors and world peace, he stressed. 
It took Lebanese Prime Minister Saad Hariri more than eight months to form a new government of 30 ministers. Two of the thirty are women. Eleven ministerial portfolios went to the Strong Lebanon Bloc which supports the country’s President Michel Aoun. The government also includes representatives of the Al-Mustaqbal Sunni movement, the Lebanese Forces Christian party, the Hezbollah and Amal Shia movements, the Druze and Armenian communities. 
Kyrgyz president notes growth of bilateral trade turnover with Russia 
The Kyrgyz side expects Putin’s visit to Bishkek in late March 
BISHKEK, February 4. /TASS/. Kyrgyzstan has increased the volume of trade with Russia, Kyrgyz President Sooronbay Jeenbekov said at a meeting with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov on Monday. 
I note with satisfaction the growth of the trade turnover between our states, he said. Comprehensive relations between the republic and the Russian Federation considerably improved after Kyrgyzstan had joined the Eurasian Economic Union in 2015, he said. 
Jeenbekov affirmed that Russian President Vladimir Putin will soon visit the Kyrgyz Republic. We are always happy to meet with our Russian friends. Your official visit is taking place ahead of a remarkable political event - the Russian president's state visit to the Kyrgyz Republic, Jeenbekov noted at a meeting with Lavrov. The upcoming visit of the Russian leader to Bishkek will become a demonstration of the high level of alliance and strategic partnership based on stable traditions of historic friendship and mutual respect between the two states, the Kyrgyz leader said. 
Lavrov noted, for his part, that his arrival to Bishkek is devoted to the preparation for the official visit of the Russian president to Kyrgyzstan and a session of the intergovernmental commission that will take place on March 1, 2019. We value our relations of alliance and strategic partnership, bilateral ties and cooperation in the CSTO, EAEU, SCO, OSCE, UN and other organizations where we are represented and where we have very close ties. Today, we will discuss with the Kyrgyz foreign minister all the foreign political tasks which our state leaders set and which provide stable and steady work in all areas, Lavrov stressed. 
The Kyrgyz side expects the Russian president’s visit to Bishkek to be held in late March this year. 
Two-thirds of Russians polled say INF Treaty must stay, suggests survey 
Almost two-thirds of Russian citizens (63%) believe Moscow must undertake efforts to salvage the INF accord 
MOSCOW, February 4. /TASS/. Almost two-thirds of Russian citizens (63%) believe Moscow must undertake efforts to salvage the INF accord, but dismiss US accusations of Russia’s failure to comply with its provisions as unfounded (74%), an opinion poll carried out by the Russian Public Opinion Research Center reveals. 
Three-fourths of those surveyed have heard about the US plans to withdraw from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty. Almost two-thirds of the respondents believe that Russia is in some way or another interested in maintaining the treaty (62%), and that is why the agreement must stay in place (63%). Twenty-one percent of the polled Russians think the opposite, says the survey publicized on Monday. 
Most Russians (84%, of whom 61% are not aware of the details) know about the treaty, and almost half of them (49%) think it is advantageous for both sides, while each third Russian national believes the INF Treaty offer the US more benefits. 
As for Washington’s accusations that Russia had violated the agreement, most respondents (74%) call them unfounded. Meanwhile, 66% of the polled Russians see Moscow’s counterclaims against the US for its failure to comply with the accord as rather justified. 
Opinions are divided as to who is more committed to saving the INF Treaty, with 29% saying the two countries are equally concerned about this, compared to 33% who say Russia is more committed to seeing the treaty remain in place, while 10% say the US is more interested. As many as 15% of those surveyed believe neither side is seeking to maintain the treaty. 
The Gorbachev-Reagan era, remembered for the signing of the INF and other treaties on reducing nuclear arms, is nowadays labeled by Russia’s public opinion as primarily a period of collapse and Russia surrendering its positions. However, despite widespread concerns of these treaties’ being more advantageous for the US, Russians see them as major mechanisms for maintaining peace and security across the globe, pollster’s Director General Valery Fedorov said. 
The US leadership’s new policy to scrap these arms reduction deals is unacceptable and harmful in our people’s opinion. It raises the threat of a nuclear war and mutual extermination and adds tensions to the relationship between the two countries, Fedorov stressed. 
The nationwide poll involving 1,600 respondents was conducted on January 22. The margin of error does not exceed 2.5% at a 95% confidence level. 
Road to INF exit 
On Friday, US President Donald Trump and Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said that Washington would suspend its liabilities under the INF Treaty starting February 2 and would quit it within six months if Russia did not come into compliance with the agreement. 
A day later, on Saturday, Russian President Vladimir Putin responded in kind, saying that Moscow would suspend the Cold War-era arms reduction treaty. Moreover, he told his ministers not to initiate disarmament talks with Washington, underscoring that the United States should become mature enough for equal and meaningful dialogue. Putin pointed out that Russia would start work on the development of new weapons mirroring Washington’s steps. In particular, work will begin on a new hypersonic ground-launched medium-range missile. 
The US began censuring Russia for allegedly breaking the treaty in July 2014. Since then, Washington has repeated its accusations on many occasions. In turn, Moscow has rebuffed these allegations and advanced counterclaims against the US, saying that Washington has failed to comply with the accord. 
The Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States on December 8, 1987, entered into force on June 1, 1988. The INF deal covered deployed and non-deployed ground-based short-range missiles (from 500 to 1,000 kilometers) and intermediate-range missiles (from 1,000 to 5,500 kilometers). By June 1991, the parties had met their obligations under the treaty, as the Soviet Union had destroyed 1,846 missiles and the United States eliminated 846. 
Putin congratulates national team with winning 2019 World Bandy Championship 
The Russian president also thanked the coaching staff and relatives of player for their support and wished the players more victories in the future 
MOSCOW, February 4. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has extended his congratulations to the national team for winning the 2019 World Bandy Championship. 
Russia’s national bandy team secured on Saturday a thrilling overtime win of 6-5 over hosts Sweden in the final of the 2019 World Bandy Championship in the Swedish city of Vanersborg. The Russian national bandy team became the 12-time world champion, equaling Sweden’s record. 
I congratulate you with the gold of the World Championship in Sweden, Putin stated. You have once again demonstrated the high level of skills and the team spirit, snatching the win in the final match from the traditional and strong opponents. 
The Russian president also thanked the coaching staff and relatives of players, for their support of the national team and wished the players more victories in the future. 
In 2020, the Russian eastern Siberian city of Irkutsk will host the next World Bandy Championship. 
Bandy was officially recognized as a winter sport competition by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 2001. However, bandy was featured as a demonstration sport at the VI Winter Olympic Games in Norway’s capital of Oslo in 1952 and the Federation of International Bandy (FIB) was officially registered in 1955 by four founding countries, namely Norway, Finland, Sweden and the Soviet Union. 
Russia routs rubella, WHO confirms 
The World Health Organization has officially confirmed Russia’s status as a country that quashed the spread of rubella 
MOSCOW, February 6. /TASS/. The World Health Organization (WHO) has officially confirmed Russia’s status as a country that quashed the spread of rubella, the press service of the Russian Health Ministry told journalists on Wednesday. 
The World Health Organization has provided documentary evidence that Russia received the status of a country that stopped the spread of rubella in almost three years, the press service said in a statement. 
Director of the WHO’s Regional Office for Europe Zsuzsanna Jakab gave Russian Health Minister Veronika Skvortsova a certificate on the elimination of rubella in 2015-2017 endorsed by Chair of the European Regional Verification Commission for Measles and Rubella Elimination (RVC) Gunter Pfaff. Thus, the Russian Federation has made a considerable contribution to achieving the common goal of eliminating both measles and rubella in 53 European states, the WHO’s regional director noted. 
Tests of Russia’s Sarmat ICBM prove efficiency of technical solutions 
Roscosmos Chief Dmitry Rogozin earlier reported to President Vladimir Putin that the work on the new heavy RS-28 Sarmat ICBM was proceeding according to schedule 
MOSCOW, February 6. /TASS/. The pop-up tests of the Sarmat intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) have proven the correctness of all the developers’ basic technical solutions, Chairman of the Scientific and Technical Council at the State Space Corporation Roscosmos Yuri Koptev said in a video posted by Roscosmos’ TV studio on Wednesday. 
A very serious stage was held last year. This involved pop-up tests, which confirmed the correctness of all the basic technical solutions, Koptev said, commenting on the Sarmat ICBM’s trials. 
As he stressed, the contribution of Roscosmos enterprises to the country’s defense capability is estimated at about 40% 
Roscosmos Chief Dmitry Rogozin earlier reported to President Vladimir Putin that the work on the new heavy RS-28 Sarmat ICBM was proceeding according to schedule. 
A source in the defense industry earlier told TASS that the flight development tests of the Sarmat ICBM were planned to be launched from the Plesetsk Cosmodrome in the second quarter of 2019. 
According to the source, several experimental Sarmat models are planned to be launched during the trials from the Plesetsk spaceport and from the testing range of the Uzhur missile division in the Krasnoyarsk Region in East Siberia. The trials will be concluded in 2020. After that, a verification test-launch of the serial-produced missile will be conducted. 
Sarmat ICBM 
The RS-28 Sarmat is a Russian advanced silo-based system with the heavy liquid-propellant intercontinental ballistic missile. It has been in the process of its development since the 2000s to replace the R-36M2 Voyevoda ICBM. 
It weighs about 200 tonnes and has a throw weight of around 10 tonnes. The media reported in late December 2017 about the first successful pop-up test of the Sarmat ICBM. 
Maduro’s evacuation from Venezuela not on Kremlin’s agenda, says Putin's spokesman 
Moscow and Washington are not discussing the ways to settle the Venezuelan crisis, Peskov also stressed 
MOSCOW, February 7. /TASS/. No work is underway in the Kremlin on the potential evacuation of President Nicolas Maduro from Venezuela because of the domestic political crisis, Russian Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. 
This issue has not been raised, he said when asked about the Kremlin’s view about other countries’ proposals to guarantee immunity to the Venezuelan leader and evacuate him from the country. 
Moscow and Washington are not discussing the ways to settle the Venezuelan crisis and there are no contacts on this, Dmitry Peskov added. 
There isn’t any exchange of views with the United States, Peskov said, answering a question on whether the contacts with Donald Trump’s administration on this score are possible. 
Moscow is not holding any consultations with other countries, including Uruguay, he added. 
Speaking on the exchange of views on the Venezuelan settlement, the Kremlin spokesman assured that Moscow would try to convince its foreign partners to keep a neutral stance. An intensive exchange of views with all foreign partners is underway, he said. During our contacts we stress that any foreign interference is unacceptable and that such meddling is malign and there may be catastrophic consequences of any military interference in this situation by third countries. 
Peskov emphasized that Russia’s position is well-known and Moscow has been consistently adhering to it. The position of Kremlin remains unchanged, Peskov told journalists commenting on a recent Bloomberg report that Moscow allegedly started doubting the necessity of keep providing its support for Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro. 
Juan Guaido, Venezuelan opposition leader and parliament speaker, whose appointment to that position had been cancelled by the country’s Supreme Court, declared himself interim president at a rally in the country’s capital of Caracas on January 23. On the same day the United States recognized him as an interim president, and the countries of the Lima Group (excluding Mexico) and the Organization of American States followed suit. Venezuela's incumbent President Nicolas Maduro blasted the move as an attempted coup and announced cutting diplomatic ties with the United States. 
On February 4, most European Union member-states recognized Guaido as Venezuela’s interim president. Russia, Belarus, Bolivia, Iran, Cuba, Nicaragua, El Salvador and Turkey voiced support for Maduro. 
Latin America can become fully visa-free for Russians 
The director of the Russian Foreign Ministry’s Latin American department recalled that the visa-free zone currently covers 25 out of 33 states on the continent 
MOSCOW, February 8. /TASS/. The Russian Foreign Ministry continues negotiations on removing visa restrictions with Latin American countries, agreements with eight of the 33 countries are yet to be reached, Director of the Russian Foreign Ministry’s Latin American Department Alexander Shchetinin told TASS. 
To date, we have made considerable progress in resolving a strategic issue, that is, to turn our countries into a zone of citizens’ mutual visa-free trips. Currently, it covers 25 countries (out of 33), he said. At the moment, Mexico, Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Haiti, Saint Lucia, the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, Trinidad and Tobago are the countries where visas are required for Russians. Negotiations with them continue. 
The agreements with three countries, specifically, Costa Rica, Suriname and the Dominican Republic, have been signed, but have not entered into force yet, Shchetinin added. 
Macedonia’s accession to NATO bodes no good - Russia’s envoy 
The problem is that having joined the alliance, Skopje will be forced to take the decisions not in line with with their national interests, Sergei Bazdnikin stated 
MOSCOW, February 9. /TASS/. Macedonia’s accession to NATO along with bellicose rhetoric coming from some NATO states does not look very promising, Russia’s Ambassador to Skopje Sergei Bazdnikin said in an interview with TASS. 
Russia’s stance on NATO enlargement, including in the Balkans, is known far too well. In spite of all assurances that the process is not aimed against our country, the deeds denote the opposite, and the alliance’s military infrastructure is coming closer to our borders, and it [NATO] officially views Russia as the main adversary, Bazdnikin said. 
Accompanied by NATO hawks’ bellicose and more aggressive rhetoric - as they are setting the tone in the alliance - it cannot certainly bode anything good, he added. 
According to the ambassador, Skopje assured Russia numerously, including in the public field, that Macedonia’s aspiration for NATO has no anti-Russian underlining. 
We have no grounds to doubt the sincerity of our Macedonian counterparts. The problem is that having joined the alliance, they will be forced to take the decisions not in line with with their national interests but in line with the principles of ‘Atlantic solidarity’ which will essentially make them lose their freedom of action, the diplomat said. 
On February 6, NATO’s 29 states signed an agreement with Macedonia at the North Atlantic Alliance’s headquarters in Brussels, in the presence of NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg and Macedonia’s Foreign Minister Nikola Dimitrov. The agreement will be submitted for ratification to the NATO states and after this process is complete, Macedonia will follow suit. 
Deepening split 
An agreement changing the name of Macedonia has deepened the split in the country and will have negative long-term consequences for the Balkans, Bazdnikin stressed. 
The ambassador recalled that nearly two thirds of Macedonia’s population boycotted the referendum on the Prespa agreement on September 30, 2018. 
It proves that a divide in Macedonia has deepened, he said. Unconditionally, this cannot but have long-term repercussions in such a highly explosive region, like the Balkans. 
The ambassador pointed out that regardless of how much Russia is being blamed, Moscow does not want any escalation in either Macedonia or the Balkans. 
However, it is worth mentioning that the Treaty of Prespa was approved notwithstanding serious breaches in domestic and international law, in other words, it goes beyond the boundaries of the legal field, Bazdnikin warned. 
It is unlikely to be an instrument for a fair, sustainable and lasting solution to Macedonia’s renaming. On the contrary, as Macedonia’s President Gjorge Ivanov has been reiterating, instead of solving one old problem, the Prespa agreement might create many new ones, he added. 
About the Treaty of Prespa 
On June 17, 2018, the Macedonian and Greek foreign ministers signed an agreement on the shore of Lake Prespa, where the borders of both countries meet. The accord would see Macedonia being renamed the Republic of North Macedonia. On January 11, 2019, the Macedonian parliament added amendments to the country’s constitution. The Greek parliament endorsed the treaty on January 25. 
The accord put an end to the 27-year-long dispute between Athens and Skopje, during which Greece had been holding up Macedonia’s admission to the European Union and NATO. 
Grammy Awards 2019: Childish Gambino, Lady Gaga and Dua Lipa win big 
Childish Gambino's This Is America won the prestigious Record of the Year and Song of the Year awards 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 12 
Lady Gaga accept the award for best pop duo or group performance for Shallow at the 61st annual Grammy Awards in Los Angeles 
Kacey Musgraves, winner of the awards for best country album for Golden Hour, best country song for Space Cowboy, best country solo performance for Butterflies and album of the year for Golden Hour 
British singer Dua Lipa with the Grammy for Best New Artist and Best Dance Recording 
The 61st annual Grammy Awards was held on February 10, 2019 in Los Angeles. This Is America by Childish Gambino won the prestigious Record of the Year and Song of the Year awards, becoming the first rap song to win the prestigious categories. Country artist Kacey Musgraves took home four Grammys, including Album of the Year and Best Country Album for Golden Hour. Dua Lipa won two Grammys, including Best New Artist. And Lady Gaga won three Grammys, two of them for the song “Shallow”. See the ceremony highlights. 
Russia’s renewed anti-doping system is highly reliable, says Deputy PM 
Olga Golodets said that it is also one of the exemplary ones across the globe 
MOSCOW, February 12. /TASS/. Russia’s renewed system of the fight against violations of doping regulations is highly reliable and is one of the exemplary across the globe, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Olga Golodets said on Tuesday. 
We must be strictly adhering to the position, which we worked out for ourselves, we adopted a very substantial legislation and we have overhauled the system, Golodets, who oversees issues of culture and sport in the Russian government, said. Today we implement educational programs as well as programs of control over the clearance of athletes and work of doctors. 
This system is solid, very reliable and is one of the exemplary in the world, the deputy premier stated. 
The International Paralympic Committee (IPC) announced on February 8 a decision to conditionally lift the suspension of the Russian Paralympic Committee (RPC) by March 15, giving the right for Russian Para athletes to compete at the international tournaments under the national flag after that date. 
It was a landmark decision since we speak here about the recognition of Russia’s merits in the fight against doping abuse, Golodets said commenting on the IPC’s decision. 
The conditional lift of the suspension will be in force until December 31, 2022, which means that the Russian side must strictly abide by a number of special requirements to avoid a recurrence of sanctions. 
Announcing the conditional lift of the suspension last Friday, the IPC stated that it would grant permissions to Russian athletes to participate in the 2020 and 2022 Paralympics under the condition that they undergo frequent doping tests. 
The Executive Committee of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) ruled in January to keep in force the Russian Anti-Doping Agency’s (RUSADA) status of compliance with the Code. The issue of compliance of the national anti-doping agency with the international Code was one of requests on behalf of the IPC regarding the membership reinstatement of the RPC. 
Lavrov says will meet with his Slovak counterpart soon 
According to the minister, Moscow is satisfied with the state of bilateral ties in terms of political contacts at various levels and in terms of dialogue on practical cooperation 
SOCHI, February 13. /TASS/. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has said he will hold talks with his Slovak counterpart, OSCE Chairperson-in-Office Miroslav Lajcak next week. 
Despite the complicated international situation and the complicated situation in Europe, we feel and reciprocate your commitment to developing and strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation. By the way, we have very good contacts between our Foreign Ministries. Miroslav Lajcak with whom we meet regularly is coming toMoscow next week as OSCE Chairperson-in-Office, Lavrov said at a meeting with Slovak Parliament Speaker Andrej Danko. Of course, we will discuss not only OSCE-related issues, but also our bilateral affairs and some thorny issues of global and European politics. 
According to Russia’s top diplomat, Moscow is satisfied with bilateral ties in terms of political contacts at various levels and in terms of dialogue on practical cooperation. 
Lavrov also pointed to trade and economic cooperation between Russia and Slovakia. According to the minister, the bilateral trade turnover is approaching $5.5 bln. [The trade turnover] grew more than 26% in 2017, and we hope it will grow even more this year. We want to consolidate this trend, he added. 
For his part, Danko noted cooperation between the two countries’ parliaments. I try to contribute to that in every possible way and develop our relations. You are our historical friends, and therefore you have our historical gratitude. It is not easy to uphold all that, but, nonetheless, cooperation with the Russian Federation is our task, he concluded. 
Lavrov to discuss global stability issues in Munich 
The Russian top diplomat is expected to meet with EU Foreign Policy Chief Federica Mogherini, UN envoy to Libya Ghassan Salome and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg 
MUNICH, February 15. /TASS/. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will discuss issues related to maintaining stability and countering threats in the Middle East, Eurasia and other parts of the world with his counterparts and representatives of international organizations during the 55th Munich Security Conference. 
Russia’s top diplomat is expected to address the participants in the event during the high-level plenary meeting on February 16. Lavrov who leads the Russian delegation will focus on Moscow's approach towards international security and global stability issues and cooperation in the region from Greater Europe to Greater Eurasia, the Russian Foreign Ministry reported. 
According to Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova, Lavrov could meet, in particular, with his German counterpart Heiko Maas, top Belgian diplomat Didier Reynders and Pakistani Foreign Minister Makhdoom Shah Mahmood Qureshi. 
The issue of Moscow’s and Tokyo’s efforts aimed at signing a peace treaty will be discussed during Lavrov’s planned meeting with his Japanese counterpart Taro Kono. 
Lavrov is also expected to meet with EU Foreign Policy Chief Federica Mogherini, UN envoy to Libya Ghassan Salome and NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. 
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov earlier said that contacts between the Russian delegation and US counterparts were not planned, as Washington is shying away from dialogue. However, he did not rule out spontaneous talks with US representatives during the forum. 
Head of Russian media watchdog supports fight against fake news 
Roskomnadzor's head believes it should be fought, I don’t know if through raising fines or through other measures 
Head of the Russian media watchdog Alexander Zharov 
SOCHI, February 15. /TASS/. The surge of fake news in the media must be prevented, head of the Russian media watchdog (Roskomnadzor) Alexander Zharov told reporters on Friday during the Russian Investment Forum. 
The spread of fake news is a scourge. And we definitely need to fight it, I don’t know if through raising fines or through other measures. Everyone must fight the spread of fake news, especially journalists, he said. 
The Russian Investment Forum takes place in Sochi on February 14-15. The main topic of this year’s forum is the realization of national projects. The Roscongress Foundation acts as the forum’s organizer. The TASS Russian news agency is the general information partner and the official photohost of the Russian Investment Forum. 
Putin positive on outcome of talks with Lukashenko 
The Russian leader noted that he had invited the Belarusian counterpart to Sochi to conduct negotiations and offer him a chance to take a break on the ski slopes and maybe play hockey 
Belarusian and Russian presidents, Alexander Lukashenko and Vladimir Putin 
SOCHI, February 15. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has said he is satisfied with the talks with his Belarusian counterpart Alexander Lukashenko. 
I believe we did a good job, he told reporters after the negotiations. 
Putin noted that he had invited the Belarusian leader to Sochi to conduct negotiations and offer him a chance to take a break on the ski slopes and maybe play hockey. 
Putin noted that December 2019 would mark the 20th anniversary of the Treaty on the Creation of a Union State of Russia and Belarus. The Belarusian president and I agreed that we would analyze everything that has been done recently. We will synchronize our watches on the integration issue, bearing in mind that other integration processes, including the Eurasian Economic Union, are developing simultaneously, he noted. 
We have to see where we are ahead, where we are a little behind what is going on within the EAEU, Putin said, adding that it was based on the agreements that formed the basis for the Union State. 
In some ways, the EAEU even went a little further. Some things that were planned under the 1999 Union Treaty are no longer relevant. On the other hand, something is gaining more momentum and is extremely important, the Russian leader explained. He assured that the three-day negotiations were aimed at analyzing the goals that have been achieved and that are yet to be realized, holding consultations with counterparts and identifying the most important tasks. 
Fitch Ratings forecasts Russia's economic growth at 1.5% in 2019 
Fitch Ratings expects Russia's economic growth to modestly accelerate to 1.9% in 2020 
MOSCOW, February 16. /TASS/. Fitch Ratings forecasts Russia's economic growth to slow to 1.5% in 2019 and then to modestly accelerate to 1.9% in 2020. 
Fitch expects growth to slow to 1.5% in 2019 reflecting the impact of the VAT rate increase on consumption and weaker investment (especially given a higher base effect from 2018). We then expect growth to accelerate modestly to 1.9% in 2020, below the expected 3.2% for the 'BBB' median, supported by recovering private consumption and faster execution of government priority programmes, Fitch said in the report. 
Average inflation will increase from the historical low of 2.9% in 2018, to 5.3% in 2019 due to a higher VAT rate, the 2018 rouble depreciation and higher inflation expectations, the credit rating agency added. 
Nevertheless, Fitch forecasts inflation to return to the central bank target of 4% by 2020 in the absence of persistent effects from the VAT increase, negative supply shocks and further weakening of the rouble, Fitch noted. 
Fitch forecasts the federal budget surplus to reach 1.8% and 1.4% in 2019 and 2020, respectively, as higher-than-budgeted oil prices, and continued non-oil and gas revenue growth will comfortably offset expenditure increases in priority areas such as infrastructure, Fitch added. 
Increased exchange rate flexibility and compliance with the fiscal rule continue to support Russia's capacity to absorb external shocks and limit the impact of oil price volatility on the economy, the credit rating agency concluded. 
Volume of contracts concluded at Sochi Investment Forum reaches $15.12 bln, Medvedev says 
According to the prime minister, implementation of national projects, interaction with regions, business and experts was discussed at the forum 
GORKI, February 18. /TASS/. The total volume of contracts concluded during the Russian Investment Forum in Sochi reached 1 trillion rubles ($15.12 bln), Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said on Monday at a meeting with deputy prime ministers. 
If we talk about the results, then I would like to note that contracts are usually signed during the forum. In any case, according to Roscongress, contracts have already been signed for around 1 trillion rubles ($15.12 bln), which is generally quite decent, bearing in mind the interests of investors, Medvedev said. 
According to Medvedev, implementation of national projects, interaction with regions, business and experts was discussed at the forum. All these proposals, of course, need to be carefully analyzed. The most significant ones should be formalized as assignments. I ask you to prepare them, he said. 
Baring Vostok founder’s arrest can ruin authorities’ efforts to promote entrepreneurship 
It would be possible to choose other measures of restraint - for instance, house arrest or seizure of funds.Vice President of the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Elena Dybova believes 
MOSCOW, February 19. /TASS/. The arrest of Michael Calvey, founder of the Baring Vostok investment fund, can bring to naught all the efforts of the Russian authorities to promote entrepreneurship, Vice President of the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Industry Elena Dybova told TASS. 
My position is the position of business. Such high-profile arrests can even bring to naught the efforts of the authorities to promote entrepreneurship as part of the national SME project (Small and Medium-Sized Business and Support for Individual Entrepreneurial Initiatives - TASS), she said. 
In her opinion, it would be possible to choose other measures of restraint, for example, house arrest or seizure of funds. 
Dybova also noted that the fact that head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriev and business ombudsman Boris Titov is ready to vouch for Calvey should not to be ignored. 
Baring Vostok’s case 
Russia’s Investigative Committee launched a criminal case into the embezzlement of 2.5 bln rubles ($37.5 mln) from the Vostochny Bank on February 13. Michael Calvey is the key defendant in the case. On February 15, the law enforcement agencies arrested Calvey and five others: Vagan Abgaryan, partner at Baring Vostok, Philippe Delpale, an investment partner for the financial industry sector at Baring Vostok, Ivan Zyuzin, Investment Director at Baring Vostok and also General Director of the First Collection Bureau Maxim Vladimirov and Advisor to the Management Board of Norvik Bank, Alexey Kordichev. They are all facing charges under part 4 article 159 of Russia’s Criminal Code (Swindling committed on a large scale by an organized group). 
According to the investigation, Calvey and his accomplices put together a scheme, where the First Collection Bureau, under their control, waived its right to a 59.9% stake in a Luxembourg-based company called the International Financial Technology Group (IFTG), to the Vostochny bank to pay it back for a 2.5 bln-ruble debt. Before the deal, IFTG’s shares were valued at 3 bln rubles. However, the investigation is examining another estimate of 600,000 rubles (according to a Cyprus-based company’s valuation). That said, the Central Bank claimed that the price of these shares was close to zero, the investigator noted. 
On February 7, Serzod Yusupov, a minority shareholder in Vostochny Bank filed a complaint with Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB). In addition, Artyom Avetisyan, another Vostochny shareholder, along with the deputy chairman of the bank’s board Konstantin Rogov testified against Michael Calvey. 
Calvey rejected all charges and accused Yusupov and Avetisyan of a conjuring up bogus charges caused by a corporate conflict in the bank. 
Head of the Russian Direct Investment Fund Kirill Dmitriev said he was ready to vouch for Calvey. Business Ombudsman Boris Titov called Calvey’s detention illegal, noting that the situation was a purely corporate dispute. 
About Baring Vostok 
Baring Vostok is one of the largest private equity firms focusing on Russia and the CIS with $3.7 bln in capital. Since 1994, the fund has poured more than $2.4 bln of investments into 70 projects in the areas of financial services, oil and gas, telecommunications and media, and into the consumer sector. Baring Vostok’s projects include CTC Media, Yandex, Avito, Ozon, ER-Telecom, 1C, and Novomet. 
US audiences must have an opportunity to watch Russian war drama T-34, says producer 
Earlier, the showing was cancelled in San Francisco over alleged propaganda claims, according to head of the company distributing the film on North American territory Alexander Belyakov 
MOSCOW, February 19. /TASS/. The US audiences must have a right to decide for themselves whether to see the Russian military drama T-34 by Alexey Sidorov and to form their own opinion on the picture currently distributed in the US, the film’s producer Ruben Dishdishyan told TASS on Tuesday. 
Earlier, TASS informed that the showing of the film was cancelled in the US city of San Francisco due to a radical reaction by a group of individuals who allegedly detected propagandistic content in the film. The showing was set to take place on February 21. 
I have a high opinion of the audience, the producer noted. I think they must see the picture for themselves and form an opinion of what it is like, whether it is good or bad, whether they like it or not. To impose an opinion [on the audience] is rather strange. He added that the US viewers are smart, they will figure out what’s what. Dishdishyan also thanked those who started the cancellation wave for free publicity. 
At the same time, the producer stated that he is surprised by the reports of the film’s showings being sabotaged in the US. What do politics have to do with it? he asked. We have shot a good adventure movie about the power of human spirit, friendship, heroism, love, will for victory, and faith in life. I think that our film is about universal human values that are understood in every part of the world, and there is nothing else there, no hidden meaning. 
Dishdishyan added that over 70 countries have acquired the rights to distribute the film, including Germany, Belgium, Netherlands, Luxembourg, Japan, the US, the UK, Canada, Italy, Israel, Spain, France, Middle Eastern countries, and the Baltic states. Over 9 million viewers saw the film in Russia, the producer noted. 
The T-34 film is a Russian military drama, which is currently the second top grossing film of all time in Russia. It is shown in several US theaters in Russian with English subtitles from February 17 to February 24. 
Earlier, head of the company distributing the film on North American territory Alexander Belyakov told TASS that there were attempts to scare off owners of small independent movie theaters in Boston and San Francisco through sending complaints regarding Russian propaganda, however, the film went through a special commission in Canada, and no propagandistic content was found. 
We just want as many people as possible seeing different and the best Russian films, and the rest is a matter of taste. Every person in the US has a right to choose, and the viewers can decide for themselves whether to watch the film or not, Belyakov stressed. 
EU blocked visa-free regime with Russia for artificial reasons, Moscow says 
Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov noted that Russia and the EU have been negotiating a visa-free regime for a long time, with Brussels imposing a series of conditions on Moscow 
MOSCOW, February 21. /TASS/. The EU has blocked the agreement on establishing a visa-free regime with Russia under made-up pretenses, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov stated on Thursday during his speech for the Association of European Businesses. 
The Russian foreign minister noted that Russia and the EU have been negotiating a visa-free regime for a long time, with Brussels imposing a series of conditions on Moscow. The EU stated the need to introduce a visa-free regime only for those citizens with biometric passports, we agreed to it. Then the EU urged us to lower the number of citizens travelling with service passports, which we also have done, Lavrov explained. 
Another EU’s request was about an obligatory agreement on readmission between Russia and the EU, with executive protocols made with every EU member country. And we agreed to it as well, the Russian top diplomat noted. Despite all this, when everything was ready, and Brussels had to make a decision on signing this agreement, it was blocked. 
According to Lavrov, the Baltic countries stood in the way of signing such an agreement. Their position was based on one very simple formula: they thought it unacceptable that Russia would get a visa-free regime before Georgia, Ukraine and Moldova, the Russian foreign minister noted. If these are not artificial obstacles in the way of free exchange, then I don’t know what else is there to say.. 
Soyuz-2.1b carrier rocket with Egyptsat-A satellite blasts off from Baikonur spaceport 
The Egyptian satellite was expected to be launched on November 22, 2018, however, was rescheduled repeatedly 
MOSCOW, February 21. /TASS/. The Soyuz-2.1b carrier rocket with the Egyptsat-A satellite has been launched from the Baikonur spaceport, a space industry official told TASS on Thursday. 
The launch of the Soyuz-2.1b space rocket with an Egyptsat-A spacecraft was carried out from the Baikonur spaceport, the source said. 
Nine minutes after the launch, the Fregat upper stage and the Egyptian satellite are scheduled to separate from the third stage, after which the satellite will be put to the designated orbit. 
The Egyptian satellite was expected to be launched on November 22, 2018, however, the launch was rescheduled multiple times. 
The EgyptSat-A Earth’s remote sensing satellite was developed by the Russian Energia Space Rocket Corporation instead of the EgyptSat-2 vehicle that went out of order in 2015. 
Oscars 2019: Highlights from the 91st Academy Award 
The Oscars was presented for outstanding individual or collective efforts in 24 categories in filmmaking 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 15 
Billy Porter arrives at the 91st Academy Awards, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles 
Peter Farrelly and the cast and crew of Green Book accept the award for best picture at the 91st Academy Awards 
An image of Freddie Mercury appears on screen as Brian May and Adam Lambert of Queen perform at the Oscars on at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles 
Rami Malek accepts the award for best performance by an actor in a leading role for Bohemian Rhapsody 
Mark Ronson, Anthony Rossomando and Lady Gaga accept the award for best original song for Shallow from A Star Is Born 
Mahershala Ali accepts the award for best performance by an actor in a supporting role for Green Book 
Samuel L. Jackson embraces Spike Lee, winner of the award for best adapted screenplay for BlacKkKlansman as Brie Larson looks on, at the Dolby Theatre in Los Angeles 
Olivia Colman accepts the award for best performance by an actress in a leading role for The Favourite 
Regina King winner of the Supporting Actress Award for 'If Beale Street Could Talk' 
Paul Massey, Tim Cavagin and John Casali pose with the award for best sound mixing for Bohemian Rhapsody 
Gloria Campano, Bradley Cooper and Irina Shayk at the 91st annual Academy Awards ceremony 
Alfonso Cuaron poses with the awards for best director for Roma, best foreign language film for Roma, and best cinematography for Roma in the press room at the Oscars in Los Angeles 
The 2019 Oscars was presented for outstanding individual or collective efforts in 24 categories in filmmaking. Bohemian Rhapsody, directed by Brian Singer, won four out of the five Academy Awards it was nominated for. Peter Farrell’s Green Book won the Oscar for best picture. Alfonso Cuaron took the best director award for Roma, as well as a victory in the best foreign language film and best cinematography. Rami Malek won the Oscar for best actor for his role as Freddie Mercury in Bohemian Rhapsody, while Olivia Colman won the best actress Oscar for her role in The Favourite. Take a look at the winners and some memorable moments from the ceremony. 
EU calls for peaceful resolution of Venezuelan crisis 
On February 28, the EU will discuss preparations for a new ministerial meeting of the Contact Group on Venezuela 
BRUSSELS, February 25. /TASS/. The European Union stands for resolving the Venezuelan crisis peacefully, EU Spokesperson for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Maja Kocijancic said at a press conference in Brussels on Monday. 
We need a peaceful political and democratic and Venezuelan-owned resolution of this crisis. This obviously excludes the use of force, she said. 
On February 28, the EU will discuss preparations for a new ministerial meeting of the Contact Group on Venezuela, Kocijancic noted, adding that no date for the meeting had been determined so far. 
Crisis in Venezuela 
On January 23, Juan Guaido, Venezuelan opposition leader and parliament speaker, whose appointment to that position had been cancelled by the country’s Supreme Court, declared himself interim president at a rally in the country’s capital of Caracas. 
Several countries, including the United States, Lima Group members (excluding Mexico), Australia, Albania, Georgia and Israel, as well as the Organization of American States, recognized him. Maduro, in turn, blasted the move as a coup staged by Washington and said he was severing diplomatic ties with the US. 
In contrast, Russia, Belarus, Bolivia, Iran, Cuba, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Syria and Turkey voiced support for Maduro, while China called for resolving all differences peacefully and warned against foreign interference. The United Nations secretary general, in turn, called for dialogue to resolve the crisis. 
On February 4, most of the European Union member states recognized Guaido as Venezuela’s interim president. 
On Saturday, Guaido called on the international community to be ready to consider all options to resolve the crisis in Venezuela. Meanwhile, US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo told Fox News that every option was on the table as far as Venezuela was concerned. 
China's Wuhan Poses at the Oscars 
WUHAN, China, Feb. 25, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- The 91st Academy Awards were announced on Feb. 24 in the United States. Taiko Studios (Wuhan)'s One Small Step was nominated in the animated short category, according to the Publicity Department of the CPC Wuhan Municipal Committee. Wuhan, capital city of China's Hubei Province, has once again attracted global attention. 
The Motion Picture Association of America appreciated that simplicity can also convey messages in such a strong manner. The 7-min-40-second work was inspired by the experience of China's first batch of women astronauts. With the support from her shoe-making father, Luna, a Chinese American girl, dreams of becoming an astronaut. Luna's pursuit of her dream echoes with the Wuhan city spirit of taking the initiative and striving for excellence. The animation was filled with Wuhan elements: Luna's lives in the Optics Valley in Wuhan, with a hot and dry noodle shop nearby - one of Wuhan's specialties. 
As the title tells, one small step for Taiko is a big step for the animation industry of Wuhan. Wuhan is a megacity with a population of 10 million in central China. It is home to 89 colleges and universities, with nearly 1.3 million students on campus, the most among all cities across the world. It is also a world-renowned city of culture, a national demonstrative base of cultural and scientific integration. It joined UNESCO Creative Cities Network in 2017, and became the first World Design Capital among China's inland cities. 
The city government has introduced various favorable policies concerning household registration and housing to attract young talents to stay in recent years. To build Wuhan into a city of entrepreneurship, related authorities have vigorously supported local entrepreneurs and solicited entrepreneurial teams from other cities, attracting talents from all over the world. 
The 7th World Military Games is going to be held in Wuhan this October. About 10,000 athletes from more than 100 countries will gather in Wuhan, which will present a modern, harmonious, intelligent and clean city to the world. 
Absen to Launch Latest Narrow Pixel LED Solutions at ISLE 2019 
GUANGZHOU, China, Feb. 26, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- As part of its Fine Pixel Generation campaign, Absen (SZSE: 300389), a leading global LED exporter, will showcase its new narrow pixel pitch (NPP) product series at the 2019 International Signs and LED Exhibition (ISLE 2019), Asia's biggest signs and LED exhibition, to be held in the Canton Fair Complex in Guangzhou China, from March 3-6. Absen's products will be on display in booth 9.2B-01. 
Featuring the latest in Integrated Matrix Device (IMD) and Common Cathode (CC) technologies, the new Absen Aries Series (featuring the 1.5mm pixel pitch AX1.5) and CR Series (with the 0.9mm pixel pitch CR0.9) provide five times the strength of traditional LED screens while consuming 20% less power. 
The Aries Series allows for a much broader range of colours, while being road-rugged to meet the growing demand for sub-2mm fine pitch LEDs in events like auto shows, product launches, meetings and TV live broadcasting. It is also ideal for fixed installations. 
The CR0.9 model is ideally suited for corporate / control room sectors, featuring true pixel-to-pixel HD in 4K and 8K, while achieving high grayscale at low brightness levels via CrystalView technology. 
Absen will aslo show its Absenicon, an all-in-one display solution specifically developed for meeting rooms, event spaces and lecture theatres which comes in 5 different sizes ranging from 110 to 220 including 4K compatibility. 
ISLE 2019 visitors will also be able to see Absen's existing products including its leading rental series Polaris, the N-Plus Seriesfor retail and corporate applications, and its Cassette model for outdoor and transportation advertising. 
About ISLE 
The International Signs & LED Exhibition (ISLE) is a premium business platform for the signs and LED industry that is held every year in Guangdong province, China. With the biggest exhibition area in Asia, ISLE covers over 100,000 square meters and features more than 1,800 exhibitors. In addition, ISLE hosts a series of display technology and sign application workshops and seminars during the event. 
About Absen 
Established in 2001, Absen Optoelectronic Co., Ltd (Absen) is a Chinese manufacturer of high-quality LED display solutions. Headquartered in Shenzhen and listed on the Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE: 300389), Absen is renowned for its global presence, full-service capability and high-quality products for the live events, broadcasting and rental staging industry. With 1,500 employees, Absen is present in over 120 countries and was instrumental to the success of over 30,000 projects and installations worldwide to date. 
US amendments ‘killed’ Russia’s draft UN statement on Venezuela — diplomat 
Russia had prepared a draft Security Council statement on Venezuela, similar to the one adopted for Haiti on the US initiative 
UN, February 27. /TASS/. The United States has demonstrated double standards by killing Russia’s draft UN Security Council resolution on Venezuela with its amendments, Russian Deputy UN envoy, Dmitry Polyansky, told the UN Security Council session on Tuesday. 
I would like to inform that while we were having a session here, the US delegation has already managed to kill our draft statement by introducing amendments condemning the Maduro government and so on, he said. The optics, used by the United States for Haiti, is apparently not suitable for Venezuela. We view this as an outrageous manifestation of double standards. 
Russia’s UN envoy, Vasily Nebenzya said earlier in the day that Russia had prepared a draft Security Council statement on Venezuela, similar to the one adopted for Haiti on the US initiative. 
The initial version of the document expresses concern over civilian deaths in Venezuela and confirms the UN Security Council’s readiness to work in cooperation with the country’s people and legitimate authorities. It also calls upon all political forces to demonstrate their commitment to solving the political and economic crisis in Venezuela. 
Russia spent some $10.6 billion to organize 2018 FIFA World Cup 
The larger part of this sum was allocated from the federal budget, the Local Organizing Committee Russia-2018 announced 
MOSCOW, February 27. /TASS/. Russia spent about 700 billion rubles ($10.6 billion) to organize the 2018 FIFA World Cup, Arkady Dvorkovich, the chairman of the Local Organizing Committee (LOC) Russia-2018, said on Wednesday. 
The Monitoring Council of the Russia-2018 LOC gathered for its last session in Moscow on Wednesday. 
A sum of about 700 billion rubles was spent on the organization of the world championship, Dvorkovich told journalists after the session. The larger part of this sum was allocated from the federal budget. 
Last summer Russia hosted its first-ever FIFA World Cup, which kicked off in Moscow with a remarkable opening show at Luzhniki Stadium on the evening of June 14 and ended with a spectacular final match, played also at the Luzhniki Stadium, where France confidently defeated Croatia 4-2 to win the much-coveted World Cup Trophy. 
Russia selected 11 host cities as the venues for the matches of the 2018 World Cup and they were Moscow, St. Petersburg, Sochi, Kazan, Saransk, Kaliningrad, Volgograd, Rostov-on-Don, Nizhny Novgorod, Yekaterinburg and Samara. 
FIFA President Infantino said after the world championship that Russia staged the best World Cup ever. According to the Russian Federal Agency for Tourism, some 2.9 million foreign visitors arrived in Russia last summer for the FIFA World Cup. 
In late December, FIFA announced in its statement that the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia set a new record of audience in the history of world football championships as over half of the world’s population watched matches on TV at home, out of home or on digital platforms. 
Ukraine withdraws from Eurovision 2019 song contest 
The National Public Broadcasting Company's board member said the decision was made due to excessive politicization of the national selection 
KIEV, February 27. /TASS/. Ukraine will not participate in the Eurovision 2019 international song contest, the press service of the National Public Broadcasting Company of Ukraine informed on Wednesday. 
The National Public Broadcasting Company of Ukraine withdraws from the Eurovision 2019 international song contest, the message informs. 
According to the company’s board member Alexandra Koltsova, due to excessive politicization of the national selection the broadcasters decided to withdraw from the Eurovision 2019 song contest. 
Earlier, all three finalists of the Ukrainian national selection for Eurovision 2019 refused to participate in the contest. Members of the group Anna Maria publicly refused to render the events in Crimea in 2014 as Russian aggression. Various Ukrainian officials also criticized another band that had reached the final, Yuko, whose member, Yulia Yurina, is a Russian citizen. 
When Ukrainian singer Maruv came in first in the national selection, Ukrainian politicians urged her to cancel the tour planned in Russia. As a result, Maruv and the National Public Broadcasting Company failed to sign the contract that would allow her to take part in the contest. Other bands participating in the national selection, such as Freedom Jazz, Kazka, and Brunettes Shoot Blondes, refused to sign a deal with Ukrainian broadcaster out of solidarity with other participants. 
Five IS group’s members sentenced for plotting terror attacks in Moscow 
The defendants have been sentenced for plotting terror attacks on the territory of the French Embassy in Moscow 
Ruslan Esmurziyev, Magomed Amatkhanov and Elberd Kharsiyev 
ROSTOV-ON-DON, February 28. /TASS/. The North Caucasus District Military Court has sentenced five citizens of Russia’s Ingushetia Republic to between 12 and 20 years in a maximum security colony for plotting terror attacks on the territory of the French Embassy in Moscow overnight to January 1, 2017 and illegally storing weapons. 
The court ordered to recognize the defendants guilty on all charges. Magomed Amatkhanov was sentenced to 20 years, Salamkhan Sampiyev and Ruslan Esmurziyev to 17 years, Elberd Kharsiyev to 13 years and Khusen Kitiyev to 12 years in behind the bars. 
Other charges include involvement in the activity of the Islamic State (terror group, outlawed in Russia) in Ingushetia, preparations for terror attacks in Moscow on the territory of the French Embassy and in the subway on New Year’s Eve in 2017 and also storing weapons and explosives. 
The court found convincing the evidence that in January 2016 Esmurziyev and Sampiyev, the followers of the IS group, joined a banned cell via the Internet. Later, Amatkhanov, who fought in Syria on the side of the IS in July-August 2014, also joined them. 
In September 2016, the defendants started plotting the terror attacks in Moscow, buying weapons and vehicles and the purchase was bankrolled by their coordinators. According to the case files, during the operation to detain the men in November 2016 police seized 8 Kalashnikov rifles, 4 pistols, more than 500 rounds of ammunition, hand grenades and self-made explosives, including a suicide belt. The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charges. 
Venezuela’s executive vice-president says US aid was farcical 
Rodriguez recalled that the US envoy for Venezuela Elliot Abrams was notorious for attempts at delivering doubtful consignments of humanitarian aid 
MOSCOW, March 1. /TASS/. The United States’ attempt to deliver ostensible humanitarian aid to Venezuela was a farce pursing aims that were very far from pious, Venezuela’s Executive Vice-President Delcy Rodriguez said at a meeting with Russian State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin on Friday. 
Venezuela today is a target for aggression by a group of the United States’ satellite countries - those which have staged this surprising farce of the age presented as humanitarian aid for Venezuela, Rodriguez said. 
President Nicolas Maduro could not but react to this by further strengthening relations with Russia, she stated. 
Rodriguez recalled that the US envoy for Venezuela Elliot Abrams was notorious for attempts at delivering doubtful consignments of humanitarian aid. 
It should be noted that the trucks that had tried to cross the border were carrying not medicines for the Venezuelan people. They were carrying items meant for staging unrest. We are aware that Mr. Abrams has great experience in that field: in the 1980s he used to hide weapons in humanitarian cargoes for Nicaragua, Rodriguez said. 
On February 23, the Venezuelan opposition tried to bring into the country humanitarian cargoes across the borders with Colombia and Brazil which the authorities in Caracas had declared closed earlier. The National Guard and police units, deployed in the area of border checkpoints did not let the cargoes into the country. Several trucks were burned down. 
Russian national team wins half of medals on the first medal day of the Universiade 
Russian athletes won four gold, five silver and three bronze medals 
KRASNOYARSK, March 3. /TASS/. The Russian national team ranks first in the team event after the first medal day of the winter 2019 Universiade in Krasnoyarsk. 
Sunday had eight sets of awards, and Russian athletes won four gold, five silver and three bronze medals. Skiers Alisa Zhambalova and Ivan Yakimushkin, freestyle skier Maxim Burov and snowboarder Christina Paul won gold. Skiers Ekaterina Smirnova and Anton Timashov, freestyle skier Lyubov Nikitina, snowboarders Alexandra Parshina and Daniil Dilman won silver medals, bronze awards were awarded to skiers Yana Kirpichenko and Ivan Kirillov, freestyle skier Ruslan Katmanov. 
The Swiss team is in the second place in the medal standings with one gold, one silver and one bronze medals, while the Canadian team is third (1-0-1). Thus, Russian athletes won half of all medals on Sunday (12 of 24). 
On March 3, the Russian women's national bandy team beat Sweden with a 4:2 score, the Russian men's curling team beat the Chinese team (8:4), and the Russian women's curling team won against the Japanese (8:4) and British (6:4). The Russian men's national hockey team defeated the Japanese team (10:1), while the women's national team beat the Chinese (13:0). 
Russian President Vladimir Putin said earlier that he the 2019 Winter Universiade, which kicked off in the Russian Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk on Saturday, will beat the record for the large-scale participation. 
2019 Winter Universiade 
The Russian Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, which has a population of over one million, was elected to host the 2019 Winter Universiade at the session of the FISU Executive Committee in Brussels in 2013. The event is scheduled for March 2-12, 2019. 
The Winter Universiade is an international sporting and cultural festival which is staged every two years in a different city. The name of the international sports event is a combination of two words, which are ‘University’ and ‘Olympiad.’ 
It is only second to the Olympic Games. The program of the Winter Universiade currently includes 6 compulsory sports (8 compulsory disciplines) and up to 3 optional sports chosen by the host country. 
The 2019 Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk offers 76 sets of medals in 11 sports competitions, which are Alpine Skiing, Curling, Biathlon, Figure Skating, Cross-Country Skiing, Ice Hockey, Snowboard, Short Track Speed Skating, Freestyle Skiing, Bandy and Ski Orienteering. 
Russia, US to continue cooperation in manned space programs after Crew Dragon’s launch 
In the future, cosmonauts and astronauts will be able to fly aboard both Russia’s Soyuz and US spacecraft 
MOSCOW, March 4. /TASS/. Russia and the United States will continue cooperation in manned and resupply space programs after the launch of the US Crew Dragon spacecraft to the International Space Station (ISS), spokesman for Russia’s State Space Corporation Roscosmos Vladimir Ustimenko told TASS on Monday. 
The Crew Dragon spacecraft developed by SpaceX was launched to the orbital outpost on March 2 and docked for the first time to the space station on March 3. The spacecraft is expected to undock on March 8 and splash down in the Atlantic Ocean after its descent by the parachute. 
If the spacecraft’s descent proceeds in a normal regime, it will travel to the orbital outpost with NASA astronauts Bob Behnken and Doug Hurley on its board in July. After that, NASA will make a decision on certifying the Crew Dragon for regular flights to the ISS. 
The negotiations [on cooperation] with NASA are now underway. Both organizations are interested in further cooperation. This cooperation will continue both in manned and resupply programs and on the ISS, the Roscosmos spokesman said. 
In the future, cosmonauts and astronauts will be able to fly aboard both Russia’s Soyuz and US spacecraft. The talks on this issue are currently in their active phase but no specific agreement has been reached yet, the spokesman said. 
Roscosmos Executive Director for Manned Programs Sergei Krikalyov earlier told TASS that the Crew Dragon should undergo tests and comply with safety and reliability requirements before Russian cosmonauts can travel aboard it. 
Only Russian Soyuz spacecraft have been used since 2011 to deliver cosmonauts, astronauts from the United States and other countries to the ISS. In the United States, SpaceX and Boeing are developing new spacecraft for manned flights. 
Russian biathlete Moshkova wins third gold at Universiade in mass start 
The 23-year-old athlete covered the distance over 42 minutes and 5.7 seconds, missing three targets during four shooting stages 
KRASNOYARSK, March 10. /TASS/. Russian biathlete Ekaterina Moshkova has won women’s 12.5km mass start event at the Universiade in the Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk. 
The 23-year-old athlete covered the distance over 42 minutes and 5.7 seconds, missing three targets during four shooting stages. 
Russian Elizaveta Kaplina came second, 4 seconds behind with two missed targets. Another Russian Elena Chirkova won the bronze medal, finishing 1.04 seconds back with three missed targets. Russia’s Tamara Voronina and Irina Kazakevich came fourth and fifth, respectively. 
For Moshkova, this is the third victory at the Universiade. Earlier the Russian biathlete won women’s sprint and pursuit events. 
The Russian national team is currently first in the overall medals standings of the Universiade with 87 medals - 31 gold, 31 silver and 25 bronze medals. South Korea is ranked 2nd with six gold, three silver and four bronze medals. Japan follows in the 3rd place with three gold, three silver and three bronze medals. 
The Russian Siberian city of Krasnoyarsk, which has a population of over one million, is hosting the 2019 FISU Winter Universiade between March 2 and 12. 
The 2019 Winter Universiade in Krasnoyarsk offers 76 sets of medals in 11 sports competitions, which are Alpine Skiing, Curling, Biathlon, Figure Skating, Cross-Country Skiing, Ice Hockey, Snowboard, Short Track Speed Skating, Freestyle Skiing, Bandy and Ski Orienteering. 
Evrofinance Mosnarbank continues working normally 
Earlier it was reported that rthe bank had been hit by US sanctions 
MOSCOW, March 11. /TASS/. Evrofinance Mosnarbank hit by US sanctions earlier today continues normal operations, press service of the credit institution told TASS on Monday. 
In connection with news regarding sanctions introduced by the US in respect of Evrofinance Mosnarbank, we inform that the bank continues stable operations. The Bank meets and will unconditionally meet all its commitments to clients and partners in full scope, the press service said. 
The US Treasury introduced sanctions against the Russian-Venezuelan bank Evrofinance Mosnarbank in connection with the situation in Venezuela, according to its statement released earlier on Monday. 
Evrofinance Mosnarbank was founded at the turn of 2003 as a result of consolidation of Mosnarbank and JCB Evrofinance. Shareholders of the credit institution are Venezuela’s national development fund Fonden S.A. (49.99%), Gazprombank and its subsidiary Novintech (25% plus one share), VTB and its foreign subsidiaries ITC Consultants and VTB Bank (25% plus one share). 
The credit institution ranks 96th among Russian banks in terms of the asset value and is the joint Russian-Venezuelan bank, operating in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement between the two countries. 
Journalistic investigation of Troika Dialog doesn't contain particular new data — Kremlin 
Earlier data from the investigation of the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project was published, stating that Troika Dialog created an offshore network to channel money out of Russia 
MOSCOW, March 11. /TASS/. The journalistic investigation on channeling money out of Russia through the Troika Dialog offshore network contains obsolete, distorted and wrong data, Presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters on Monday. 
It contains numerous facts that were known long time ago. They were mentioned earlier. Some of them are not consistent with the reality. Some items are mentioned incorrectly, with distortions, and therefore this investigation does not contain any particularly new things, Peskov said. 
Earlier, several media outlets, including RBC, published data from the journalistic investigation project of the Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), according to which investment company Troika Dialog, run by Ruben Vardanyan, created a network of offshore companies through which money was channeled out of Russia, including the use criminal schemes. 
Lavrov: Threats of sanctions against Nord Stream 2 contradict international law 
The Russian top diplomat noted that Washington’s manner to dictate everything to everyone means no good 
MOSCOW, March 12. /TASS/. The threats of the United States to impose sanctions on the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline contradict the international law, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said on Tuesday after talks with Austrian Foreign Minister Karin Kneissl. 
Under the international law, this absolutely contradicts all the premises, all norms. It’s not for nothing that our American and some other Western colleagues no longer use this phrase international law. They urge everyone to follow the so called rules based order, the minister said. 
If we follow the international law, then there must be an elementary competition of economic proposals. This also meets the WTO rules, he added. 
We must fairly compete. Because we see gross violations of all ethical and legal norms, when the United States demands from any country not to buy raw materials and energy resources from Russia, but to buy them from the United States, not to buy products from Russia as part of military-technical cooperation, and to buy more expensive products from the United States, Lavrov said. 
Unfair competition in sports has already become a talk of the town, he added. 
Lavrov noted that Washington’s manner to dictate everything to everyone means no good. 
We have already warned our American colleagues that, maybe in a very short historical period - a year or two or three years - they will get some kind of profit, but in a strategic, long-term view, they undermine confidence in the very international system that is based on the dollar. That means no good for them in the end, the top diplomat stressed. 
Nord Stream 2 
The Nord Stream 2 pipeline is expected to come into service at the end of 2019. The pipeline is set to run from the Russian coast along the Baltic Sea bed to the German shore. 
The United States strongly opposes the new gas pipeline from Russia to Europe. Washington has repeatedly threatened to impose sanctions on the project, including its European participants. The Russian authorities view it as an attempt to increase the supply of American liquefied natural gas (LNG) to the EU, which is significantly more expensive than the Russian pipeline. 
According to the report on the state of EU-Russia political relations approved on Tuesday, the European Parliament considers necessary to curtail the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline project, 
Russia and the EU will remain key economic partners in the foreseeable future, but Nord Stream 2 reinforces EU dependency on Russian gas supplies, threatens the EU internal market and is not in line with EU energy policy, and therefore needs to be stopped, the report says. 
ESPN includes Russia’s Sharapova, Nurmagomedov in its list of most popular athletes 
Sharapova holds the 37th place, Nurmagomedov is ranked 15th 
MOSCOW, March 13. /TASS/. Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova and MMA fighter Khabib Nurmagomedov were included into the top-100 of world’s most popular athletes, comprised by the ESPN sports TV channel. 
30-year-old Nurmagomedov was ranked 15th in ESPN World Fame 100. Hailing from Russia’s North Caucasus Region of Dagestan, he was the first Russian to win the UFC champion title during the fight against his US opponent Al Iaquinta last April. He defended the title on October 7, 2018, defeating Ireland’s Conor McGregor during the UFC 229 tournament in Las Vegas. Nurmagomedov maintains an unblemished record of 27 wins in all his 27 MMA fights. 
31-year-old Sharapova holds the 37th place. She is Russia’s most decorated tennis player having won a total of five Grand Slam tournaments, namely the Australian Open in 2008, the French Open in 2012 and 2014, Wimbledon in 2004 and the US Open in 2006. She also clinched the silver in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London and was the 2008 Federations Cup champion. Sharapova is currently ranked 29th in the Women Tennis Association (WTA) ranking. 
The top spot in ESPN’s Fourth Annual Ranking of the Biggest Names in Sports is held by Portuguese footballer Cristiano Ronaldo, followed by NBA star LeBron James and Argentinean footballer Lionel Messi. 
ESPN has been compiling its World Fame 100 ranking since 2016. A group of the company’s analysts uses their own formula to identify the 100 most famous athletes in the world, which is based on three factors: search score (how often an athlete’s name is searched on Google), engrossment figures and the number of social media followers. 
Russian racer Kvyat offers condolences over F1 Race Director Whiting’s sudden death 
Charlie Whiting passed away on 14 March as the result of a pulmonary embolism 
MOSCOW, March 14. /TASS/. FIA Formula One Race Director Charlie Whiting, who passed away on early Thursday in Australia’s Melbourne, has left a huge impact on the development of the world’s most prestigious auto race, Motorsport.com quoted as saying Russia’s F1 driver Daniil Kvyat. 
The press service of Formula One racing announced in the early hours of Thursday that FIA Director of Formula One, Charlie Whiting, has sadly passed away this morning (14 March 2019), in Melbourne, aged 66, as the result of a pulmonary embolism, three days before the Australian Grand Prix which will open the F1 season. 
Besides his numerous achievements and major contribution to the world of Formula One, Whiting was mostly known to the global audience of F1 fans as the official signaling the green-light to start off every F1 Grand Prix over the past two decades. 
A flow of tributes followed in the wake of the news of Whiting’s death and Russia’s Kvyat was among many around the globe to express his grief. 
I am deeply disappointed having learnt of this unexpected news, Kvyat said. I have personal memories to cherish in his [Charlie Whiting’s] regard. 
We will miss Charlie as he has left an irreversible impact in our lives - in the life of every pilot and the sport of racing on the whole, Kvyat stated. 
Charlie Whiting officially served as the F1 race director since 1997, but he entered the world of Formula One back in 1977, when he worked with Team Hesketh. Later, in the 1980s he worked with legendary Brabham team and was officially listed as a FIA executive in 1988. 
F1 press service cited FIA President Jean Todt as saying that: It is with immense sadness that I learned of Charlie’s sudden passing. 
I have known Charlie Whiting for many years and he has been a great Race Director, a central and inimitable figure in Formula One who embodied the ethics and spirit of this fantastic sport. Formula 1 has lost a faithful friend and a charismatic ambassador in Charlie. All my thoughts, those of the FIA and entire motor sport community go out to his family, friends, and all Formula One lovers. 
Charlie Whiting passed away in Australia’s Melbourne only three days before giving the green light to the launch of the 70th edition of Formula One World Championships. 
Coordination between Tehran, Moscow, Damascus helps defeat terrorists - Iranian top brass 
We have achieved good results protecting Syria’s sovereignty , Chief of Staff of the Iranian Armed Forces Major General Mohammad Bagheri said 
TASS, March 18. /TASS/. Coordination between Tehran, Moscow and Damascus has made it possible to achieve important victories over terrorists, Chief of Staff of the Iranian Armed Forces Major General Mohammad Bagheri said, as cited by the Al-Alam TV channel. 
We have achieved good results protecting Syria’s sovereignty, and now the task is to clear the country of the remaining illegal armed units, the Iranian general said. 
Bagheri arrived in Damascus to participate in a trilateral meeting with his Syrian and Iraqi counterparts and discuss coordination of steps in the war against terrorism. The presence of foreign troops in the Idlib province and areas east of the Euphrates River - unauthorized by the Syrian government - is illegal and must end in the near future, he pointed out. 
Bagheri also said that apart holding from talks on trilateral defense cooperation, he would visit Iranian troops deployed to Eastern Ghouta and Deir ez-Zor. 
The Iranian chief of staff also condemned the recent attacks on mosques in New Zealand’s Christchurch, which had killed 50. According to him, the attacks, reminiscent of those carried out by the Islamic State terror group (outlawed in Russia), are a result of Islamophobia stemming from US propaganda. 
Russian Black Sea Fleet’s modern weaponry to reach 70% by 2020 
The Russian Black Sea fleet has changed radically over the past five years, according to the commander 
SEVASTOPOL, March 18. /TASS/. Russia’s Black Sea Fleet is set to get 13 various ships and vessels in 2019, which will boost the share of its modern weaponry to 70% by the end of the year, Fleet Commander Vice-Admiral Alexander Moiseyev said on Monday. 
As part of renewing the ships’ structure alone, we expect to get 13 combat ships, boats and vessels [in 2019]. We continue receiving small missile ships with the most advanced Kalibr missile systems as their basic armament and continue receiving patrol ships. This year, we will get the most advanced sea-going minesweeper… Based on all the components, (warships, aircraft and the armament of land and coastal defense troops), the renewal will reach 70% by 2020, the Fleet commander said. 
The Russian Black Sea fleet has changed radically over the past five years, the commander said. It was earlier reported that the modernization of the Black Sea Fleet was launched in 2014, the year of the reunification of Crimea and Sevastopol with Russia. 
This is related to the implementation of state programs on the upgrade of the armed forces and the Navy, in particular, Over these years, we have received new submarines, surface ships, the most advanced coastal defense and air defense missile systems and unique multirole aircraft. All these major components: the sea, the air and the land have the most advanced weapon systems and military hardware, the Fleet commander said. 
Fifth anniversary of the 'Crimean Spring' 
Festive events have been underway in Crimea and Sevastopol over the past few days to mark their reunification with Russia. 
The Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, a city with a special status on the Crimean Peninsula, where most residents are Russians, refused to recognize the legitimacy of the authorities in Kiev who seized power amid riots that sparked a coup in Ukraine in February 2014. 
Crimea and Sevastopol adopted declarations of independence on March 11, 2014. They held a referendum on March 16, 2014, in which 96.77% of Crimeans and 95.6% of Sevastopol voters chose to secede from Ukraine and join Russia. The Russian president signed the reunification deals on March 18, 2014. Despite the convincing results of the referendum, Kiev refused to recognize Crimea as part of Russia. 
Power lines damaged in DPR after shelling by Ukrainian forces 
The self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces opened fire at the settlement of Staromikhaylovka on Monday evening 
DONETSK, March 18. /TASS/. Ukrainian forces have shelled the western outskirts of Donetsk which led to interruptions in electricity supply, the mission of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) to the Joint Center for Control and Coordination (JCCC) said on Monday. 
Today at 9pm Ukrainian forces opened fire at the settlement of Staromikhaylovka from weapons on infantry fighting vehicles, Donetsk News Agency quoted the mission as saying. As a result of the shelling, power lines and a sub-station were damaged, and the southern part of the settlement was left without electricity, the mission added. 
The mission noted that Ukrainian forces shot at the settlement 53 times. 
The latest agreement on ceasefire entered into force on 8 March 2019. The ceasefire agreement was reached by participants in the Contact Group on settlement of the situation in Donbass. 
Russia's defense chief comments on Western sanctions and their impact on science 
The European Union and the US introduced sanctions against Russia in 2014 
MOSCOW, March 19. /TASS/. The sanctions of the Western countries against Russia did not affect cooperation between the Russian Geographical Society and similar organizations in other countries, President of the Russian Geographical Society (RGS) and Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said in an interview with TASS, Rossiiskaya Gazeta and Komsomolskaya Pravda. 
Thank God, there are no sanctions here. Still, there are personal contacts, which started in the Soviet era, between scientists, researchers, travelers and all those who are interested in our country and want to study it, Shoigu said. 
He noted that the RGS has traditional friends - all those who have always been interested in cooperation with Russia and the Russian Geographical Society. 
Today, we have good relations with France and excellent relations with China. The Geographical Dictation was one of the last major projects, which involved 99 countries. Not every academic competition can boast it, you know what I mean, the RGS president stressed. 
In 2014, the European Union and the US introduced sanctions against Russia in light of events in Ukraine and repeatedly extended and prolonged them. 
Russian senator’s attorneys to challenge French tax evasion charges 
Prosecutors in the French city of Nice have launched a new investigation against Suleiman Kerimov 
MOSCOW, March 20. /TASS/. Russian senator Suleiman Kerimov, who is accused of tax evasion in France, is currently in Moscow and his lawyers will file an appeal, his aide Alexei Krasovsky told TASS. 
Suleiman Kerimov is at his workplace in Moscow. His attorneys will challenge these illegal and unfounded accusations, Krasovsky said. 
Prosecutors in the French city of Nice have launched a new investigation against Russian businessman and senator Suleiman Kerimov on charges of collusion in a large-scale tax evasion, Prosecutor of Nice Jean-Michel Pretre told TASS earlier on Wednesday. 
The court’s session was held on Tuesday evening and the senator paid a 20-mln euro bail. According to the prosecutor, on Tuesday Kerimov was in France. 
Suleiman Kerimov, a member of Russia’s Federation Council upper parliament house, was detained at the Nice airport overnight to November 21, 2017. Right after his detention, Moscow informed Paris that as a senator, he had diplomatic immunity. However, the French Foreign Ministry said that Kerimov’s diplomatic immunity was applicable only to his official duties. 
On the following day, Kerimov was charged with money laundering and tax evasion to the tune of up to 750 mln euros. The court of Nice ruled to release the senator on a 5-mln euro bail. 
In late June 2018, a court of France’s Aix-en-Provence dropped all charges against the Russian senator. His lawyer Nikita Sychev told TASS that France did not introduce any new charges against Kerimov. According to his aide Krasovsky, on June 29 the senator returned to Moscow and resumed fulfilling his duties. 
Yakutia to present investment projects at Arctic forum 
According to the official, Yakutia will present construction of the Zhatai shipyard at the forum 
YAKUTSK, March 21. /TASS/. Yakutia will present potential investment projects and will share experience in implemented cases at the Arctic: Territory of Dialogue forum in St. Petersburg on April 9-10, the regional government’s head, Vladimir Solodov, told reporters on Thursday. 
The Arctic is one of our priorities, he said. We are preparing Yakutia’s exhibition booth at the forum, where, among others, we shall present investment projects, Arctic tourism and the projects, which already work successfully, for example, the windfarm project in the Arctic. 
I believe, this experience is interesting to use in other regions, he added. 
According to the official, Yakutia will present at the forum construction of the Zhatai shipyard. 
This year, we shall begin construction of the shipyard’s building, he said. The shipyard will focus on navigation along Arctic rivers. 
Yakutia’s representatives will participate actively in the forum’s sessions and discussions, he continued. 
One of the main topics at the forum would be a new regime of preferences in the Arctic, he said. We shall suggest focusing on infrastructure support for investment projects - this is what we lack now. 
The International Arctic Forum - Arctic: Territory of Dialogue - is a key platform for discussing the Arctic region’s problems and development at the international level. The event was organized for the first time in 2010. The 5th ‘Arctic: Territory of Dialogue’ International Arctic Forum will take place in St. Petersburg on April 9-10, 2019. TASS is the forum’s general information partner. 
Russian deputy foreign minister discusses arms control with prominent French scholar 
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov met with Executive Chairman of the French Institute of International Relations Thierry de Montbrial 
MOSCOW, March 22. /TASS/. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov has met with Executive Chairman of the French Institute of International Relations Thierry de Montbrial to discuss arms control, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Friday. 
The sides exchanged detailed opinions on pressing issues on the international agenda, in particular, on the topic of arms control, the foreign ministry said. 
On the same day, Ryabkov met with US students. They discussed the current condition and prospects for developing Russian-US relations, the issue of non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and arms control, some other relevant international issues, the foreign ministry said. The Russian side confirmed its readiness to develop dialogue with the US on the wide range of issues on the basis of equality and mutual consideration of each other's interests, the ministry added. 
Kremlin: Different approaches obstruct ‘all-for-all’ prisoner exchange in Donbass 
The last and the biggest Donbass prisoner swap took place on December 27, 2017 
MOSCOW, March 25. /TASS/. Russia stands for the ‘all-for-all’ format of exchanging prisoners of war (POWs) in Donbass, but the sides keep displaying different approaches to this process, Russian Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on Monday. 
I would like to reiterate the Russian president’s earlier statement that Russia has been long backing this process [‘all-for-all’ exchange], and in this case it all comes to a halt due to different approaches to what the ‘all-for-all’ process actually means, Peskov said. 
Unfortunately, nuances remain regarding the approaches, Peskov added, but did not specify the nature of the so-called ‘nuances.’ 
The prisoner swap issue remains one of the key points of the Minsk agreements. The last and biggest Donbass prisoner swap took place on December 27, 2017. Kiev handed over 233 prisoners to the Donbass republics and received 73 prisoners in return. 
Both parties stressed that the prisoner exchange process had not been completed and they were determined to do everything possible to continue it in 2018. 
SIRIUS isolation experiment crewmembers to keep video blogs 
The crew members have already started to transmit to the ground-based control center 
MOSCOW, March 25. /TASS/. The participants in the SIRIUS experiment simulating a flight to the Moon will tell about their life in isolation in video-blogs. Their video materials will be available on the Facebook and YouTube pages of the Institute of Biomedical Problems, the Institute’s press office told TASS on Monday. 
The international crew of six persons entered the SIRIUS ground-based experimental compound on March 19 to spend the next 120 days in a simulated flight to the Moon and prepare for future deep space missions. 
Each crew member will record a personal video blog. They will be posted on the Facebook page of the Institute of Biomedical Problems, on the Institute’s channel in the YouTube and on the official website of the SIRIUS project, the Institute’s press office said. 
The participants in the experiment have been requested to share their emotions, interesting events and how they spend their day, the press office said. 
It is of interest for us to see their vivid perceptions of their life and work rather than their statistical reports. They will be telling about what happens over a day, the Institute’s press office said. 
The crew members have already started to transmit the first video files of their blogs to the ground-based control center. These vlogs are due to be published already in early April, the press office said. 
Pursuant to the commission’s decision, the crew comprises four representatives of Russia and two representatives of the United States. The commission has approved cosmonaut Yevgeny Tarelkin as the crew commander and Daria Zhidova (Russia) as the flight engineer, Stefania Fedyai (Russia) as the crew doctor, Reinhold Povilaitis (USA), Anastasia Stepanova (Russia) and Allen Mirkadyrov (USA) as test researchers. 
Over the four months of the experiment to simulate a flight to the Moon, the crew will fly to the Earth’s natural satellite, choose a place for a future lunar base and reach the Moon’s surface. The experiment’s scenario will reproduce the basic characteristics of a space flight to the Moon. Besides, the crew will be performing the programs of researches into physiology and psychology and in other areas. Overall, 81 experiments are planned. 
The SIRIUS (Scientific International Research in Unique Terrestrial Station) experiment will simulate a flight to the Moon: the travel to the Earth’s natural satellite and a flight around it to search for a landing place, the landing of crewmembers for operations on the surface, the stay in the Moon’s orbit and the remote control of a lunar rover to prepare a base and return to Earth. 
The experiment is being held by the Institute of Biomedical Problems of the Russian Academy of Sciences jointly with NASA and in cooperation with partners from Germany, France, Italy and other countries. It envisages a series of experiments to prepare for deep space flights. 
The first of the series of joint Russian-US SIRIUS experiments was held in November 2017 and lasted 17 days. The crew was tasked to conduct over 60 various experiments, ‘capture’ satellites by a manipulator arm and control a rover on the Moon’s surface. Now a four-month isolation experiment has begun and it will be followed by an eight-month experiment that will give way to a twelve-month research. 
World Assembly for Women Discusses Need to Reduce Gender Gaps 
The World Assembly for Women, which was organized jointly with the Women 20 (W20), was held in Tokyo on 22–24 March 2019. Roscongress Deputy CEO, Director for the Socio-Economic Agenda Elena Marinina, who is a member of the Eurasian Women’s Forum Council, was part of the Russian delegation at the W20 summit. 
The W20 is one of the most innovative outreach formats of the G20 and was created in May 2015 as part of the Turkish presidency of the group. In September 2018, an open session of the W20 meeting was held for the first time in Russia as part of the Second Eurasian Women’s Forum, which was run by the Roscongress Foundation. 
At the W20 Summit in Tokyo proposals were drawn up for inclusion in a communiqué as part of preparations for the G20 Summit that is to be held in Japan in 2019. W20 representatives expressed support for the statement contained in the G20 Buenos Aires Declaration that gender equality is crucial for economic growth and fair and sustainable development and reiterated the need to address the gender gap in order to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). 
During Japan’s presidency of the G20 the W20 pays particular attention to the inclusive and responsible use of all new technologies, including Artificial Intelligence (AI), due to their critical impact on all segments of society, ensuring no woman is left behind. 
As a result, the W20 representatives have called on G20 leaders to accelerate the pace at which they fulfil their past commitments, promote a gender-sensitive approach on the G20 agenda and act in accordance with the following recommendations: 
1. Request their labour and employment ministers to present a mid-term report on the 2014 Brisbane commitment to reduce the gender gap in labour force participation by 25% by 2025 during the 2020 G20. 
2. Remove systemic legal and social barriers in the labour market and provide solutions for achieving gender equality. 
- Enact and implement legal measures to achieve gender equality in all aspects of employment practices. In particular, take further action to close gender income gaps such as wages, pensions and other earnings in line with the SDGs. 
- Invest public funds in quality, accessible and affordable care infrastructure for children and elderly, and put in place mandatory paid parental leave to promote shared responsibility. 
- Incentivize employers in the public and private sectors to implement evidence-based policies and publicize progress on gender equality, leading to more women in decent and quality work and in leadership positions. 
3. Close the digital gender gap and ensure that women can exercise their digital rights. 
- Take urgent measures to promote equal participation of women in the design and development of digital technologies with due consideration to ethics, and prevent amplification of gender discriminations by biased data-sets, models, and algorithms in Artificial Intelligence (AI). 
- Boost equal participation of girls and women of all ages in Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics (STEAM). 
- Provide women in urban and rural areas with affordable, reliable, and safe internet and mobile services. 
4. Ensure financial inclusion, promote women’s entrepreneurship, and accelerate access to investment and markets. 
- Ensure women’s equal rights to economic resources and access to ownership and control over land and other forms of property, financial services, and natural resources. 
- Develop a policy framework and action plan to strengthen the business, financial and digital capacity of women’s enterprises, including e-commerce. 
- Create conditions for public procurement contracts awarded to women-owned and women-led businesses to increase their share by a minimum of 10%, taking into consideration national circumstances. 
- Incentivize investors to proactively incorporate gender factors into investment analysis and decision-making. 
5. Promote life-long learning, and education on gender equality in schools and workplaces, to eliminate gender stereotypes and unconscious bias. 
6.End all forms of violence against women and girls in the public and private spheres, including social media. 
- Establish effective legal frameworks, ensure access to justice, and strengthen law enforcement to end all forms of violence against women and girls in all spheres. 
- Support the adoption of the ILO’s proposed convention and a recommendation concerning the elimination of violence and harassment in the world of work, as well as ratify international conventions related to violence against womenю 
7. Establish effective and transparent governance and accountability mechanisms for achieving gender equality. 
- Develop mechanisms to monitor the implementation of G20 commitments on gender equality, together with international organizations, relevant national partners and in collaboration with the W20, and report progress on a regular basis. 
- Jointly review progress, within G20, for achieving gender parity in leadership and all levels of decision-making in the public and private sectors by 2030. 
- Strengthen the mandate and capacity of national gender machinery to ensure that gender impact assessments are conducted on legislation, standards, and policies. 
The activities of the W20 aim to consolidate the efforts of the women of G20 countries at a global level in order to achieve equal gender opportunities. The Roscongress Foundation took part in the W20 for the first time. This is certainly a landmark event as well as the continuation of work to further the women’s agenda, eliminate gender inequality, promote women's leadership, and strengthen cooperation with international women’s communities, - Advisor to the Russian President Anton Kobyakov said. 
At the W20 Summit and the World Assembly for Women in Japan, we discussed such themes as creating innovative women’s groups and women’s more active involvement in the digital economy, among other things. For the Roscongress Foundation, one of the priorities that we certainly plan on strengthening is the creation and development of a social agenda using its platforms, the promotion of women’s leadership, and assistance in building the women’s community, - Roscongress Deputy CEO, Director for the Socio-Economic Agenda Elena Marinina, said. 
The Roscongress Foundation is a socially oriented non-financial development institution and a major organizer of international conventions, exhibitions, and public events. 
The Roscongress Foundation was founded in 2007 with the aim of facilitating the development of Russia’s economic potential, promoting its national interests, and strengthening the country’s image. One of the roles of the Foundation is to comprehensively evaluate, analyse, and cover issues on the Russian and global economic agendas. It also offers administrative services, provides promotional support for business projects and attracting investment, and helps foster social entrepreneurship and charitable initiatives. 
The Foundation’s events draw more than 80,000 participants each year from 195 countries, with more than 10,000 media representatives working on-site at Roscongress’ various venues. The Foundation benefits from analytical and professional expertise provided by 2,500 people working in Russia and abroad. In addition, it works in close cooperation with economic partners from 75 countries worldwide. 
The Social Platform is a strategic initiative of the Roscongress Foundation that aims to establish and maintain a stable dialogue between the business, government and civil society structures. We create feedback tools within the framework of existing forums, continuously promote the social agenda, and facilitate the development of a healthy social environment and philanthropy in Russia. The platform’s mission is to facilitate the consolidation, establishment of a dialogue, and cooperation between the entities involved in the social ecosystem and also promote socially significant projects and the development of a culture of social inclusion in Russia. 
In February 2019 the INNOSOCIUM Foundation for Social Development Aid was established. The Foundation’s main objectives are to provide practical support for priority areas of social development, create and promote the social agenda at the communication platforms of the Roscongress Foundation, implement socially significant and charitable initiatives, facilitate the development and enhance the effectiveness of NPOs and corporate social responsibility in addition to international cooperation within the sustainable development agenda, and strengthen the positive image of Russia. The key focuses of INNOSOCIUM are social issues, culture, education, the environment, social communications, and women’s leadership. One key aspect of the INNOSOCIUM Foundation’s activities is to participate in business programme events organized by the Roscongress Foundation as well as organize sessions using its own platform. 
US denies access to chemical facilities as it has something to hide — Foreign Ministry 
MOSCOW, March 26. /TASS/. The United States is blocking a trip of Russian specialists to a facility for the destruction of chemical weapons in Colorado as it has something to hide, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a commentary on Tuesday. 
The behavior of the Czech permanent representative (Jana Reinisova), holding the chairmanship of the OPCW Executive Council, causes outrage in connection with a trip of an Executive Council’s delegation to the facility to destroy chemical weapons in the US state of Colorado. Within the framework of inspection mechanisms in effect, the Russian side has a full right to visit US chemical facilities, as US representatives were doing in due time in Russia without being hindered. However, when the question came up about a visit of Russian specialists to the US, Jana Reinisova practically blocked such possibility, the ministry said. 
The reason behind such behavior of the US and the chairperson is quite clear, it stressed. Washington, from where a respective command obviously came, does not what Russia to check US compliance with the commitments to destroy chemical weapons. This means they have something to hide, the ministry stated. 
The ministry said that the US Department of State responded negatively to a direct appeal of the Russian side in that respect. 
Moscow also drew attention to Reinisova’s ‘active manipulations’ during the February and March sessions of the OPCW Executive Council, when Americans and their allies rejected a Russian proposal to make additions to the list of substances subject to control within the framework of the Chemical Weapons Convention. 
In violation of Organization’s procedures, Jana Reinisova openly played along with the West that had impeded Russia’s attempts to get additional explanations on a strongly controversial report on the investigation into the chlorine incident in the Syrian city of Douma in April of last year, that came as a pretext for missile strikes of the US and its allies against Syria in violation of fundamental rules and principles of international law, the ministry added. 
We will continue to insistently expose a shady game of the US and its allies in a very serious matter that bears a direct relation to maintaining the integrity of the Chemical Weapons Convention, it summed up. 
Incident in Douma 
A number of non-governmental organizations, including the White Helmets, alleged that chemical weapons were used in Douma, Eastern Ghouta, on April 7, 2018. According to a statement uploaded to the organization’s website on April 8, 2018, chlorine bombs had been dropped on the city, which caused dozens of fatalities. Many other civilians were rumored to have been taken to hospital. 
The Russian Defense Ministry dismissed this as fake news. 
On April 14, 2018, the US, the UK and France delivered massive missile strikes at targets in Syria without authorization of the UN Security Council. Missiles hit a research center in Damascus, the headquarters of the Republican Guard, an air defense base, several military airbases, and army depots. Washington, London and Paris claimed the strikes had come as a response to an alleged use of chemical weapons in Douma. 
Press review: Trump’s Golan move infuriates Lebanon and PACE haggles over Russia’s rights 
Izvestia: Council of Europe to partially restore Russia’s rights for electing Secretary General 
The Council of Europe is set to harmonize statutes and bring back the Russian delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly (PACE). However, at this stage, the Council is ready to give Moscow only a temporary right to elect the organization’s Secretary General, a high-ranking source in Russian diplomatic circles told Izvestia. According to the source, neither Russia nor the Council members want Moscow to leave the organization and the situation will become clear in May. Chairman of the Russian Federation Council’s Foreign Affairs Committee Konstantin Kosachev told Izvestia that the Russian delegation is not satisfied with the partial restoration of Moscow's rights: the right to vote in PACE is important, but not the only goal. Either our rights are fully restored or not… Everything will become clear in May, the source told Izvestia. 
Meanwhile, Kosachev pointed out that despite the permission to vote for the Secretary General, Moscow will not participate in the process. He noted that for Russia, the partial restoration of the rights of delegations to PACE is unacceptable. We did not join the organization to vote for someone. These are important powers, but this is not an end in itself, he told the newspaper. Therefore, we could come there to vote for the Secretary General, and then they will once again show us our place somewhere on the side with limited powers for participating in monitoring missions, in the elections of statutory bodies of the Council of Europe, and on many other issues, he added. 
At the same time, Kosachev did not rule out that this spring, the situation could radically change at the PACE session in April. 
Over the past year, Russia’s possible withdrawal from the Council of Europe have been discussed repeatedly. Yet, a source in Russian diplomatic circles told Izvestia that neither Moscow nor members of the organization are interested in that outcome. Russia does not want to withdraw for two reasons: first, because of the work of the European Court of Human Rights, and second, because of Moscow participating in about 80 conventions, the source said. In the event of a withdrawal, Russia would have to agree on each convention. 
Izvestia: Lebanese leader draws Moscow’s attention to Golan Heights dispute 
The Trump administration’s recognition of the Golan Heights as part of Israel undermines the foundations of international law, Lebanon’s President Michel Aoun stated during talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin in the Kremlin, expressing hope that a solution to this problem will be found soon. According to the Lebanese leader, Washington’s actions have sparked the ire of other countries in the region. Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov added that this clearly has negative consequences both from the point of view of the Middle East peace process and the general atmosphere for the peace process in Syria. 
Lebanon is a traditional, long-time partner of Russia in the Middle East, Putin noted during the meeting. At the talks, the Lebanese leader drew the attention to the news about the recognition of the Golan Heights as part of Israel by the US, which, according to him, undermines the foundations and rules of the UN, and international law. According to Peskov, the proclamation signed by US President Donald Trump on recognizing Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights will have negative consequences for the situation in the Middle East. 
The US recognizing Israeli sovereignty over the Golan Heights is a step that undermines the UN’s common position on this issue, Valdai Club Program Director Oleg Barabanov told the newspaper. At the same time, the expert believes that a serious reaction to this event should not be expected, as this is not an unprecedented decision. 
The reaction of the Arab world to the US president’s decision was predictable, Head of Center of the Near and Middle East at the Russian Institute for Strategic Studies Vladimir Fitin told Izvestia. There is not a single Arab country that agrees with Trump. I have no doubt that everyone will protest, but this is unlikely to have a real impact on the situation, he added. 
Kommersant: Ford to drastically downsize in Russia 
Global automaker Ford has chosen not to continue its independent business in Russia, the company plans to focus on developing its segment of light commercial vehicles, Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak said in an interview with Kommersant. 
Ford has problems with product sales and has decided not to continue its independent business in Russia. They will focus on developing the segment of light commercial vehicles, where they already have a successful and highly resilient product: the Ford Transit. This business will be managed by their Russian partner, the Sollers Group, which will receive a controlling stake in the Ford Sollers joint venture as a result of its restructuring, he told the newspaper. 
Now, the government is looking into concluding a special investment contract (SPIC) to manufacture Ford Transit at the Elabuga Assembly Plant, he added, saying that the deal might be finalized within the next two months. Therefore, we can say that the issue with the continued presence of the Ford brand in the Russian market was solved in the most cost-effective manner, Kozak added. 
On March 26, it was reported that Ford Sollers turned to VEB with a proposal to restructure the debt. Head of VEB Igor Shuvalov in an interview with reporters did not rule out that the deal could be prepared for the next meeting of the financial institution's supervisory board. 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: Prime Minister Theresa May heading towards resignation 
After the House of Commons partially took control of London’s stalling Brexit process, the political fate of Prime Minister Theresa May might be in jeopardy, Nezavisimaya Gazeta wrote. Despite her warning that she does not intend to end the fight for her twice-rejected Brexit deal, the attention of the global media has again been glued to the action that took place on Monday evening within the walls of Westminster. The outcome of the session of the House of Commons turned into another defeat for Prime Minister. They have the authority to determine the further course of Brexit. 
Trying to force lawmakers to vote for a third Breixt plan that they have already twice rejected is not a way to solve the problem, the newspaper wrote, and neither would be resigning in exchange for the plan’s support. A second referendum could be proposed, as an extreme case, and early elections can be considered. 
Associate Professor at the Department of Integration Processes of MGIMO Alexander Tevdoy-Burmuli supports the last option. Extraordinary elections would lead to a new balance of power in parliament. Another leader will rise, who will succeed in one direction or another, and now they are at an impasse, the expert told the newspaper. 
The analyst sees the reason why London still cannot decide how the United Kingdom should leave the EU in the parliament’s unwillingness to take responsibility for the outcome of this process. The problem is not so much with May as with the House of Commons, the expert explained. First, May had a virtually impossible task - achieving favorable conditions for the UK, which the EU would agree to, which was not easy. Then when she did this, the parliament blocked the adoption of her agreement with the EU several times, Tevdoy-Burmuli told Nezavisimaya Gazeta. 
Meanwhile, May might speak at a meeting of the so-called 1922 Committee, announcing the date of her resignation, the newspaper wrote. 
Kommersant: Law enforcement agencies might get access to Internet of things 
The Russian Ministry of Communications and Mass Media plans to focus on the Internet of Things (IoT). According to it, law enforcement agencies will be able to access information stored on IoT platforms, and a closed network will be created to protect the Russian segment of the Internet of things, Kommersant wrote. Market participants still have questions about the concept, and they are also concerned about the prospects of import substitution amid a shortage of domestic equipment. 
According to the proposal, IoT networks are vulnerable, and their devices not only collect data, but also manage processes in the economy. The draft concept was reviewed on March 26, one of the meeting participants told Kommersant. To protect the Russian Internet of Things, it was proposed to form a closed network domestically using the register of device identifiers, access points and other elements. The project also provides support to domestic equipment manufacturers and developers. 
According to Kommersant, on Wednesday, a meeting will be held with the Federal Security Service (FSB) and on Thursday the final version will be sent to all participants, the Ministry of Communications confirmed. 
Industry insiders told Kommersant, the restriction of foreign equipment is overly strict. According to VimpelCom, Russian manufacturers are not ready to offer solutions for a number of standards, which could lead to a technological vacuum. 
TASS is not responsible for the material quoted in the press review 
Lawyers ask court to release former minister Abyzov on bail 
The stated bail is worth $15.4 mln 
MOSCOW, March 27. /TASS/. Lawyers of former Open Government Affairs Minister Mikhail Abyzov are asking the court to release him on bail of 1 bln rubles ($15.4 mln). 
We ask the court to elect a preventive measure for our client, which is not related to imprisonment - house arrest or a bail of 1 billion rubles, lawyer Alexander Asnis said at the Basmanny Court in Moscow, which is considering Abyzov’s arrest. 
Russia’s Investigative Committee seeks the arrest as a preventive measure for the former Open Government Affairs Minister Mikhail Abyzov and his accomplices, who are accused of embezzlement of 4 billion rubles (about $62 million at the current exchange rate). The Prosecutor upheld the petition of the investigators. Abyzov denies all accusations. 
Mikhail Abyzov who had served as Open Government Affairs Minister in 2012-2018, has been taken into custody on charges of embezzling 4 billion rubles (about $62 mln at the current exchange rate). The Investigative Committee has filed a charge against Abyzov on committing crimes qualified under Part 3 of Article 210 and Part 4 of Article 159 of the Russian penal code [Creation of criminal community using an official position and Grand fraud - TASS]. 
According to investigators, between April 2011 and November 2014, Abyzov as a beneficiary owner of a number of offshore commercial organizations created and headed a criminal network. Together with others, he siphoned off 4 bln rubles ($62 mln) belonging to the Siberian Energy Company and Regional Power Networks, which produced and supplied electricity in Russia’s Novosibirsk Region. The Investigative Committee believes that the stolen funds were entirely channeled abroad. Investigators suggest that the actions of the criminal participants jeopardized the sustainable economic development and the energy security of a number of the country’s regions.. 
Comedian Zelensky continues to lead opinion polls ahead of Ukrainian presidential election 
Zelensky is followed by incumbent President Pyotr Poroshenko and leader of the Batkivshchina party Yulia Timoshenko 
KIEV, March 28. /TASS/. Comedian Vladimir Zelensky, nominated to run for president by the Servant of the People political party, continues to lead opinion polls ahead of the first round of the Ukrainian presidential election, scheduled to take place on March 31, shows a poll conducted by Ukraine’s Ilko Kucheriv Democratic Initiatives Foundation and the Kiev International Institute of Sociology. 
Zelensky is followed by incumbent President Pyotr Poroshenko and leader of the Batkivshchina (or Fatherland) party Yulia Timoshenko. 
If the election was held today, Zelensky would receive about 28% of the vote, Poroshenko would gain 18% and Timoshenko would garner 13%, said Vladimir Paniotto, the Director of the Kiev International Institute of Sociology. 
According to Ukraine’s election laws, Thursday is the last day when opinion polls related to the election campaign can be published. 
Airline co-owner dies in Germany plane crash 
An international commission will investigate the circumstances of the death of Natalia Fileva along with the Russian aviation authorities 
MOSCOW, March 31. /TASS/. Shareholder and Chairwoman of the Board of Directors of S7 Group Natalia Fileva has died in a crash of a private Epic-LT plane in Germany, the company’s press service reported. 
On March 31, 2019, during landing of a private Epic-LT plane at the Egelsbach Airport (Frankfurt-am-Main), S7 Airlines shareholder Natalia Valerievna Fileva was killed. She was 55. So far, the circumstances of the tragedy are unknown, the press service said. 
According to the company, the international commission will investigate the circumstances of the death of Fileva along with the Russian aviation authorities. 
The investigation of the incident will be conducted by an international commission in the prescribed manner with the participation of the Russian aviation authorities, the company said. 
The team of the S7 Group expresses its deepest condolences to the family and friends. The company’s employees will always remember Natalia Valeryevna as a bright, caring leader and a wonderful person. This is an irreparable loss for the whole team, S7 added. 
Natalia Fileva was born in Novosibirsk. She owned S7 Group together with her husband Vladislav. The group includes S7 Airlines, the largest private airline of the Russian Federation, and its subsidiary Globus, which is responsible for domestic transportation. 
Private jet that crashed in Germany almost completely destroyed by fire — police 
Identification procedures will be more complicated than usual, a German air security official said 
BERLIN, April 1. /TASS/. A private plane with presumably two Russians on board, which crashed in Germany on Sunday, was almost completely destroyed by fire, which complicates the identification of victims, regional police spokesman Bernd Hochstedter said. 
The aircraft burned down almost completely. Therefore, identification procedures will be more complicated than usual, the DPA news agency quoted him as saying. 
The victims’ bodies still remain at the site of the crash due to the ongoing firefighting effort and the spill of kerosene. The wreckage is scattered within the 20-meter area surrounding the crash zone. 
Earlier, the press service of S7 reported that the private Epic-LT plane en route from France’s Cannes crashed upon landing at Germany’s Egelsbach Airport (Frankfurt-am-Main). The circumstances of the crash are not known yet. The six-seat plane had three people on board: the pilot and two passengers, presumably Russian citizens. One of them was Natalia Fileva, the chair of the board of directors of Russia’s S7 Group, 
According to the company, the investigation of the incident will be conducted by an international commission in the prescribed manner with the participation of the Russian aviation authorities. 
An official with Deutsche Flugsicherung (DFS), the company in charge of air traffic control for Germany, told TASS that the pilot presumably lost control of the aircraft while performing a turn. 
I cannot say for sure what caused the tragedy, but I may presume that the pilot possibly lost control of the aircraft for some reason while performing a turn, he said, adding that the plane crashed directly upon landing. 
The official said the pilot steered the plane under the Visual Flight Rules (VFR), not instructions from DFS radars, which is a standard procedure when weather conditions are generally good and visibility is sufficient. 
The pilot assumed manual control of the aircraft at 15:22 local time and informed the airport about initiating the landing sequence. Five minutes later, the plane crashed. 
So far, DFS has been unable to confirm that Russian citizens were on board. 
At present, we have no information on how many passengers were on board and, therefore, there is nothing we can confirm in that regard, he said. 
We have launched an investigation and it will take some time, a BFU official said, adding that more information about people on board the aircraft may be revealed on Monday or Tuesday. 
Ukrainian presidential vote formally over as station in San Francisco closes 
As of 17:00 local time (3:00 Moscow time), 348 Ukrainians out of 23,000 registered voters came to the San Francisco polling station 
KIEV, April 1. /TASS/. The first round of Ukraine’s presidential election was formally over on Monday after the last polling station closed in San Francisco, the Levy Bereg (LB) news portal reported. 
As of 17:00 local time (3:00 Moscow time), 348 Ukrainians out of 23,000 registered voters came to the San Francisco polling station to cast their ballot. 
On Sunday, Ukraine voted in the first round of the seventh presidential election in its history. The record number of candidates - 39 people - was registered. According to the Central Election Commission, only about 45,600 Ukrainians out of several millions currently abroad cast their ballot. 
Early results project the Servant of the People political party candidate Vladimir Zelensky and current President Pyotr Poroshenko to face each other in the runoff, scheduled for April 21. The final turnout stood at 63.52%. 
NATO warships arrive at Georgia’s Poti port 
Russia firmly stands against broader Georgia-NATO contacts and the alliance’s expansion towards its borders 
TBILISI, April 1. /TASS/. Four warships of the Standing NATO Maritime Group Two (SNMG2) arrived at the port of Poti in western Georgia, the press office of the Georgian Interior Ministry reported on Monday. 
The warships of the Standing NATO Maritime Group Two and two Georgian coast guard ships - the Dioskuria and the Ochamchira - will hold joint drills. The exercises aim to enhance cohesion and interoperability between Georgia and the NATO naval forces, the press office said in a statement. 
The NATO naval group includes the Dutch flagship Evertsen, and also ships from Turkey, Bulgaria and Romania. The naval group is directed by SNMG2 Commander Boudewijn Boots. The warships will stay in Georgia until April 4. 
NATO has paid growing attention to security issues in the Black Sea in recent years and is seeking to involve Georgia in this process. 
Russia firmly stands against broader Georgia-NATO contacts and the alliance’s expansion towards its borders. Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Grigory Karasin earlier said that the efforts by the United States and other NATO countries to militarize Georgia caused great concern in the region and by no means enhanced Georgia’s own security. 
Kremlin confirms Netanyahu will pay visit to Moscow for brief talks with Putin 
MOSCOW, April 2. /TASS/. Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu will arrive in Moscow on Thursday for a working visit and hold brief talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov confirmed. 
An agreement has been reached that on April 4 Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu will fly to Moscow for a brief working visit. On April 4 such brief working talks will be held and the sides will synchronize their watches, Peskov said. 
Earlier in the day, Netanyahu’s spokesperson Anna Jonathan-Leus told TASS that the Israeli prime minister planned to arrive in Moscow on Thursday for talks with the Russian president. 
Putin and Netanyahu discussed military cooperation in their phone conversation on Monday. The sides focused on vital issues of bilateral cooperation, including military contacts, and also the situation in the Middle East region, the Kremlin press service said. 
Moscow hosted talks between Putin and Netanyahu on February 27. The Russian leader said after the negotiations that a working group on Syria involving Russia, Israel and some other countries as well as Syrians could deal with normalizing the situation in the country after terrorism in Syria was fully vanquished. 
For his part, the Israeli premier said on March 3 that during the talks the parties reached an agreement on coordinating efforts by their armies and achieving the common goal, specifically, the withdrawal of foreign troops from Syria that were deployed there after the civil war broke out. 
Lavrov, OPCW director-general discuss ways to improve OPCW atmosphere 
Lavrov said that the OPCW was practically split over attempts to politicize its activity 
MOSCOW, April 2. /TASS/. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov met on Tuesday with OPCW Director-General Fernando Arias Gonzalez to discuss ways to improve the atmosphere in the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons, the Russian Foreign Ministry said. 
It said the sides exchanged opinions in depth on key issues on the agenda of the organization, discussed ways to improve the atmosphere in the OPCW. They confirmed absolute commitment to the aims of the Chemical Weapons Convention and strengthening of the OPCW role, it added. 
Lavrov said that the OPCW was practically split over attempts to politicize its activity, and Russia was in favor of overcoming the crisis in the organization. 
Fernando Arias Gonzalez is in Moscow at the invitation of the Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade - a national agency for the implementation of the Chemical Weapons Convention. 
Kola MMC uses video cameras to control safety in mines 
Specialists have installed 28 cameras both inside the mine and on top of it 
MURMANSK, April 3. /TASS/. The Kola Mining and Metallurgy Company (a part of Nornickel) uses an industrial video control system at the Severny mine, the company’s press service said on Wednesday. 
The video control system’s task is to control technology processes at the mine, the press service said. 
The new system of high-resolution cameras uses the existing data transmission systems of radio communication and positioning. Specialists have installed 28 cameras both inside the mine and on top of it. All video information from the cameras goes in real time to the mining dispatcher’s monitor and then it is archived automatically. 
The new system makes more effective work of the dispatch service. Now, dispatchers see whether trucks are filled properly, whether buckets are filled with the rock mass; they watch how ore is transported for further handling, and how equipment is being serviced and stored. 
The Kola MMC plans to install the control system at its other facilities. 
Kola MMC 
The Kola Mining and Metallurgical Company is a leading production complex in the Murmansk Region - a major producer of non-ferrous metals, including strategic metals. The company is the world’s biggest nickel refining enterprise and Russia’s only producer of electrolytic cobalt of highest grades. The Kola MMC accounts for 39% of nickel and 42% of cobalt the Norilsk Nickel Company produces. The products are supplied to the domestic market and exported to European countries. 
Move toward ‘military absorption’: Diplomat blasts NATO, US activity around South Caucasus 
This region is a sphere of Russia’s major interests, the diplomat stressed 
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova 
MOSCOW, April 4. /TASS/. Moscow sees moves by the US and NATO towards the ‘military absorption’ of Transcaucasia as a major military and political challenge, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said in an interview with the Azerbaijani ONA news agency timed to mark the 27th anniversary of diplomatic relations between Russia and Azerbaijan. 
This region is a sphere of Russia’s major interests, the diplomat stressed. First of all because of its geographic proximity. The importance of the South Caucasus in a broader geopolitical context is obvious, Zakharova said. 
An unceremonious bid by well-known non-regional forces to redraw the CIS map to their own design can be perfectly seen in the region, she stressed. We consider the activity of the US and NATO towards the ‘military absorption’ of Transcaucasia as a most serious military and political challenge for Russia, the diplomat stressed. 
And of course, we can’t help but mention the unsettled conflict in Nagorno-Karabakh, where two of our closest friends and partners are engaged in unfortunately - Azerbaijan and Armenia, the spokeswoman said. 
Maintaining stability in the South Caucasus, ensuring the development of the region with a friendly attitude of its countries towards Russia will remain one of the main goals of Russia’s foreign policy, the diplomat said. 
The interview was uploaded to the Foreign Ministry’s website. 
Krasnoyarsk Region plans to have Arctic tourism cluster 
The cluster’s investment projects are estimated at $61 million 
KRASNOYARSK, April 5. /TASS/. The Arctic tourism-recreational cluster with investments above 4 billion rubles ($61 million) will be organized in the Krasnoyarsk Region. It will unite Norilsk, Dudinka and Taimyr’s Putorana Plateau, the Agency for Norilsk’s Development’s Deputy Director Maxim Mironov told TASS on Friday. 
We have begun the project, currently we are working on its concept jointly with the regional tourism authority, administrations of Norilsk and Taimyr, he said. The cluster’s investment projects are estimated at 4 billion rubles, where one billion will be attracted under the National Project. 
The share of private investments will grow, the official added. 
Investments will be in infrastructures: river berths, roads, and business hotels, he continued. We shall build renewable energy sources on the Putorana Plateau. 
Norilsk will become a center of cultural, educational and industrial tourism, Dudinka - of ethnography tourism, and the Putorana Plateau - of extreme and ecology tourism. 
Earlier, the Krasnoyarsk Region’s head of the Tourism Agency Yulia Verkhushina told TASS the region was working on a complex plan to develop tourism in the region’s north, with estimated investments of 4 billion rubles. 
The Agency for Norilsk’s Development was established by the city administration, the Nornickel Company and the Vladimir Potanin Foundation in 2017 to offer favorable conditions for sustainable social and economic development, better living conditions, to make a positive social environment and to develop the human capital. 
'Best years of my life': Russian upper house speaker lauds working with Putin's team 
Russian Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko said that these years were difficult, but very interesting 
Russian Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko 
YUZHNO-SAKHALINSK, April 7. /TASS/. Russian Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko has said that working under Russian President Vladimir Putin corresponded to the best years of her life in an interview for the documentary timed to her 70th anniversary, broadcast on the Rossiya-1 channel on Sunday. 
I have been working for Vladimir Vladimirovich [Putin’s] team since day one, and I would like to say from the bottom of my heart that these have been the best years of my life. They have been tough, they have been difficult, but they have been very interesting and eventful, she said. 
If he [Putin] invites someone to his team, it means that he trusts this person, that is his principle, the speaker stressed. 
Putin has praised Matviyenko’s work ethic in an interview for the same documentary. Of course, Valentina Ivanovna [Matviyenko] is a very useful and important link in the whole state structure of our today’s work, the Russian leader stressed. He also noted the top senator’s diplomacy skills, which she uses in her current position. 
Matviyenko was elected speaker of the Russian Federation Council in 2011 (reelected in 2014), after serving as the governor of St. Petersburg from 2003 to 2011. She is the first woman to occupy the position of senate speaker. 
Russia’s ships, missile systems put on duty due to NATO exercise in Black Sea 
NATO’s Sea Shield-2019 exercise began in the southwestern part of the Black Sea on Monday 
Spanish frigate from the Standing NATO Maritime Group 
MOSCOW, April 8. /TASS/. The Russian Black Sea Fleet’s reconnaissance and attack ships and coastal missile systems have been put on duty in connection with NATO’s exercise in the Black Sea, the National Defense Control Center (under the Defense Ministry) told TASS on Monday. 
The center said that for rapid reaction to likely emergencies the Black Sea Fleet was carrying out a package of measures to monitor NATO’s ships. 
In the designated areas of the Black Sea reconnaissance ships and also naval attack groups, coastal missile systems Bastion and Bal and naval aircraft are on duty, the Defense Control Center said. 
The center recalled that NATO’s Sea Shield-2019 exercise had begun in the southwestern part of the Black Sea on Monday, with ships and aircraft from the United States, Bulgaria, Greece, Canada, the Netherlands, Romania and Turkey taking part in cooperation with representatives of Georgian and Ukrainian armed forces. 
Theater director Serebrennikov does not view release from house arrest as victory 
Serebrennikov described the criminal investigation against him as unfounded and bound to collapse in court 
MOSCOW, April 8. /TASS/. Theater director Kirill Serebrennikov, who has been released on his own recognizance on Monday after spending eighteen months under house arrest, believes he is close to winning the case, a TASS correspondent reported from Moscow’s Meshchansky District Court. 
This is not a victory yet but we are almost there, Serebrennikov said, rushing to hug his colleagues and friends present in the courtroom. 
During the hearing, Serebrennikov requested the court release him on his own recognizance, describing the criminal investigation against him as unfounded and bound to collapse in court. 
Apart from Serebrennikov, producer Yuri Itin and former Culture Ministry official Sofia Apfelbaum have also been released on their own recognizance. 
Serebrennikov case 
On October 25, 2018, the Meshchansky District Court started to consider the Serebrennikov case on its own merits. Apart from Serebrennikov, Itin and Sofia Apfelbaum, producer Alexei Malobrodsky is also among the defendants. A case against the former chief accountant of the Sedmaya Studiya (or Seventh Studio) non-commercial organization, Nina Maslyaeva, will be heard separately as she has made a plea deal. 
According to investigators, in 2011, Kirill Serebrennikov launched a project called Platforma (or Platform) in order to develop and promote modern art. In 2011-2014, the Russian Culture Ministry allocated over 214 mln rubles ($3.2 mln) for the project. Serebrennikov established an autonomous non-commercial organization Sedmaya Studiya (or Seventh Studio) to implement the project, hiring a number of his acquaintances, including Alexei Malobrodsky, Yuri Itin, Yekaterina Voronova and Nina Maslyayeva, to work there. 
Detectives believe that in 2011-2014, Malobrodsky, Voronova and Maslyayeva developed annual event plans within the Platform project upon the instructions of Serebrennikov and Itin, deliberately using false data about the number and the cost of the events. They provided those plans to the Culture Ministry to justify budget financing. They also made up performance reports to present to the ministry, which proved that the budget allowances received by the Seventh Studio had been fully spent on the planned activities. The investigation believes that a total of 130 mln rubles ($1.98 mln) was embezzled from the federal budget in this manner. 
Tripoli airport suspends operation amid Haftar’s air strike 
MOSCOW, April 8. /TASS/. Tripoli’s only operating airport Mitiga International has suspended all flights following the Libyan National Army (LNA) air force bombardment under the command of Field Marshal Khalifa Haftar, the Al-Wasat Internet news agency reported on Monday citing a source in the airport. 
According to the news agency’s reports, the airport suspended all departures and arrivals and evacuated passengers. There were no casualties reported after the attack, no jets were damaged. 
Earlier, the Alhadath TV channel reported a raid by LNA aircraft on Mitiga military airport that has been operating as an international airport since 2014. The raid’s target was the landing strip adjacent to the airport. 
Currently, Libya has two supreme executive authorities, namely Tripoli’s government of National Accord recognized by the international community and headed by Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj and the interim government headed by Prime Minister Abdullah al-Thani, which operates in the country’s east along with the elected parliament and is supported by the Libyan National Army. 
On April 4, Haftar announced the launch of an offensive against Tripoli. On Friday, there were reports that his squads are actively approaching the capital from the south. Sarraj ordered all military units loyal to him to be on full alert and use force if needed. 
Erdogan may have politicized issue of Russian gas prices to send a signal to US — expert 
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan earlier met with Russian President Vladimir Putin to discuss bilateral relations 
MOSCOW, April 9. /TASS/. Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan may have adopted a tough stance on the issue of Russian gas prices at Moscow talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin to show Washington that Ankara remains an independent player despite purchasing S-400 missile defense systems from Moscow, secretary general of the Russian segment of the Russian-Turkish Public Forum Sergey Markov told TASS on Tuesday. 
Erdogan said he expects gas price discounts from Russia. However, Putin pointed out that fuel prices are determined by the market. 
There are political undertones in the debate on gas prices. Erdogan wants to show Americans that it is not like he has bad relations with Washington and good relations with Moscow, but rather that it is tough for anybody to hold talks with him, that he has difficult relationships with everybody. Nothing personal, so to say, the expert noted. 
Markov said that one should not rush to conclusions after Moscow and Ankara had some disagreements on gas prices. I would describe the results of the meeting between Putin and Erdogan as preliminary. Russia and Turkey are currently developing their partnership, and many different issues arise because it is impossible to always agree on everything. There are always disagreements, he said. 
There were positive results in the sphere of military-technical cooperation, which indicates that everything will go smoothly with the deal on S-400, Markov continued. The presidents agreed to expand cooperation in this sphere. Our countries may even organize joint manufacturing of this missile defense system. Russia manufactures S-500 already and has almost completed developing S-600, so they are not our competitors in this field, Markov stressed. 
The expert also noted the importance of cooperating in the sphere of nuclear energy, especially in the construction of the Akkuyu nuclear power plant. This project is very important not just for the next few years, but for decades, Markov said. 
Head of the Center for the Middle East at the Russian Institute of Strategic Research Vladimit Fitin thinks that one should not assign great importance to disagreements on Russian gas prices. We are talking about the market, there is competition, and everybody tries to get the best deal, Fitin said. 
The expert noted that the situation in Syria is among the main disagreements between Russia and Turkey. The key issue for Turkey is to secure their north-eastern border. Russia cannot provide support in this sphere because Moscow thinks that the authorities in Damascus and the Syrian army should be responsible for controlling the border, Fitin explained. 
He reminded that Moscow's main interest lies in eliminating terrorists in the Idlib province, while Ankara does not want military operations in this area. If a new military operation starts, the number of refugees fleeing to Turkey will grow considerably, and it may become a serious problem for Ankara. Moreover, Turkey thinks that the part of the opposition that they support maintains its influence in Idlib, Fiting said. 
Nornickel invests $2.3 billion in cutting sulphur dioxide emissions 
Nornickel aims to cut sulphur dioxide emissions at the Polar Branch by 75% - by more than 1.5 million tonnes a year 
ST. PETERSBURG, April 10. /TASS/. The Norilsk Nickel Mining and Metallurgical Company (Nornickel) plans to invest more than 150 billion rubles ($2.3 billion) in processing sulphur dioxide at its Polar Division’s facilities, the company’s Vice President Dmitry Pristanskov told the international Arctic forum on Tuesday. 
The Northern Project is absolutely non-commercial, it is a part of the national Ecology project, the company’s representative said. The company plans to attract more than 150 billion rubles in Russian technologies to cut sulphur dioxide emissions by 75%. 
TASS wrote earlier that under the Clear Air federal project, which is a part of the Ecology national project, Nornickel would invest in cutting emissions in Norilsk about 123 billion rubles ($1.9 billion). 
The Northern Project is a project to cut sulphur dioxide emissions at Nornickel’s Polar Division. It is the biggest ecology task under the program to upgrade the company’s industrial assets. Nornickel aims to cut sulphur dioxide emissions at the Polar Branch by 75% - by more than 1.5 million tonnes a year. The project continues to 2022, the planned capacity is due in 2023. 
The Russian government has announced 12 national projects - Demography, Culture, Healthcare, Education, Housing and Urban Environment, Ecology, Roads, Labor Productivity and Employment Support, Science, Digital Economy, Small and Medium Business, International Cooperation and Export. These projects are to be implemented to 2024. 
St. Petersburg is hosting the Arctic: Territory of Dialogue 5th International Arctic Forum on April 9-10. ‘The Arctic. The Ocean of Opportunities’ is the forum’s theme in 2019. Roscongress is the official organizer, while TASS is a primary information partner and the official photo hosting provider. 
Sudanese spill into Khartoum’s streets cheering news of president’s resignation 
A statement from the military is expected to be aired by state TV and radio stations shortly 
MOSCOW, April 11. /TASS/. Thousands of the Sudanese citizens have filled the streets of the Sudanese capital, Khartoum, celebrating the apparent ouster of President Omar al-Bashir and the military seizing control. The Al Jazeera TV channel reported on Thursday that military vehicles are deployed near the Presidential palace. 
Arab TV channels show crowds of people in the streets of Khartoum, many waving national flags, and chanting in support of the army, shouting that the regime has fallen. 
People have gathered near army headquarters and the presidential palace, they also have been marching or driving to the center of the city. Clashes or unrest have not been reported. There are posts emerging on social media of isolated incidents and localized shootings, but they haven’t been officially confirmed. 
At the same time, both TV and social media say that there are no police units in Khartoum, soldiers are patrolling the city, and armored vehicles have been rolling through the captial’s streets. Main roads in the city are also being monitored by the military under army transport supervision. The military has taken control of TV and radio broadcasting stations, and the Khartoum international airport has been closed. 
Army arrests 
According to the Dubai-based Al-Hadath TV channel, both incumbent and former top Sudanese officials from the entourage of Sudanese President Omar al-Bashir have been arrested, such as head of the Republican Guard and former Defense Minister Abdel Rahim Mohammed Hussein, leader of the ruling National Congress party Ahmed Haroun, as well as former First Vice President Ali Osman Taha. 
Earlier reports stated that the Military Council of Sudan was making arrangements to assume power in the country for a year. According to the officially unconfirmed reports emerging from the country, the Sudanese military has staged a coup d’etat to oust President Omar al-Bashir from power, completely abolishing his authority. A statement from the military is expected to be aired by state TV and radio stations shortly. Some time ago, a closed-door meeting of the Sudanese Chief of Staff office began in Khartoum without the president. 
There are no accurate reports on the whereabouts of President Omar al-Bashir. According to some reports, he has been placed under house arrest by the military who have pulled off this coup d’etat. Other reports said that he had fled the country. At the same time, the Al-Hadath TV channel stated that his jet was grounded on Wednesday morning when the president tried to flee Sudan and find refuge in a neighboring country. 
Since last December, Sudan has been mired in mass protests sparked by surging prices on fuel, bread and flour, as well as severe shortages of staple foods. On February 23, President al-Bashir dissolved the cabinet, dismissed heads of all provinces and declared a nationwide state of emergency for a year to take emergency measures to pull the country out of the severe economic crisis. Subsequently, the parliament cut the state of emergency to six months. 
Omar al-Bashir took over the country in 1993, after staging a military coup. The upcoming presidential elections in Sudan are scheduled for 2020. Initially, al-Bashir did not plan to take part in them, but the ruling National Congress party said it would back its leader for another term. 
Russia's Zagitova says planned withdrawing from World Championship in Japan 
Zagitova is now the first Russian female figure skater to win all awards in ladies singles competitions 
MOSCOW, April 12. /TASS/. /TASS/. Russian figure skater Alina Zagitova said on Friday that three days before the 2019 ISU World Championship in Japan’s Saitama last month she had plans to withdraw from the tournament as she had been afraid ‘to disgrace’ Russia. 
Zagitova scored 237.50 points on the aggregate after the short program and free skating at the world championship in Japan to win the gold. Kazakhstan’s Elizabet Tursynbaeva took the silver with the result of 224.76 points and the bronze went to Russia’s Yevgeniya Medvedeva (223.80 points). 
I had a very difficult training and was experiencing a problem with jumps, Zagitova said speaking at the Vecherny Urgant TV show on Channel One explaining why she wanted to withdraw from the championship. I did not want to disgrace Russia because I am performing not for myself only, but for the whole country. 
The 2019 ISU (International Skating Union) World Skating Championships was hosted by Japan’s Saitama between March 20 and 24. 
In addition to the gold of the 2019 ISU World Championship, Zagitova, 16, is the 2018 PyeongChang Olympics gold medalist in singles and the silver medalist in team event. 
Zagitova is now the first Russian female figure skater to win all awards in ladies singles competitions as she is also the winner of the 2018 European Championships in Moscow and the gold medalist of the 2017-2018 Grand Prix Final in Nagoya. 
Russian Central Bank has instruments to withstand external shocks — head 
Head of the Russian Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina said the Central Bank proceeds in its forecasts from the assumption that sanctions will remain 
Head of the Russian Central Bank Elvira Nabiullina 
WASHINGTON, April 13. /TASS/. Russia's Central Bank has necessary financial instruments to withstand external shocks, the bank's head Elvira Nabiullina said on the sidelines of the annual meeting of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank in Washington. 
If external events happen and cause volatility on external markets, we have a set of instruments because we have already gone through financial markets volatility more than once. We are ready to use those instruments depending on what the channels of influence of those negative external factors are, Nabiullina said. 
She noted that the Central Bank proceeds in its forecasts from the assumption that sanctions will remain. They [sanctions] can change, and it is really pointless to guess how as they are many different proposals. Our task is to make sure such external restrictions have minimum effect on our financial market, on our economy, because we pursue a conservative monetary policy, Nabiullina added. 
Russian banks and financial institutions pursue rather cautious policies as well, she said. That's why we believe that it is very important to be conservative in financial regulations, so that banks have enough capital, she concluded. 
Police detain 45 Yellow Vest protesters in France’s Toulouse - TV 
According to the latest data, 21 people were injured during the protests in Toulouse, including a police officer 
PARIS, April 14. /TASS/. French police detained a total of 45 protesters during Saturday’s Yellow Vest demonstrations in Toulouse, the BFM TV channel reported citing the prefecture of Haute-Garonne’s department. 
Earlier reports said 23 people had been detained. According to the prefecture, 15 individuals were arrested for violating the rules of participation in the manifestation, in particular covering their faces with masks or other means. 
According to the latest data, 21 people were injured during the protests in Toulouse, including a police officer. 
On Saturday, a new wave of Yellow Vest protests hit France, drawing nearly 31,000 people, according to the French Interior Ministry. Like in previous days of demonstrations, protesters clashed with police. Toulouse was declared the capital of Yellow Vest protests on that day. Local authorities have not provided data on the number of protesters in this southern city, but the BFM TV channel puts the figure at nearly 4,500. 
The protesters expressed discontent over the national debate, claiming that French President Emmanuel Macron used the event as a platform to promote his own agenda. They demanded that the authorities announce particular decisions in the near future after contacts with regional authorities and representatives of the public. 
Kremlin: No full clarity on date, place of Putin’s meeting with Kim Jong-un 
South Korea’s Yonhap news agency reported earlier that Kim Jong-un might visit Russia next week. 
MOSCOW, April 15. /TASS/. No final decision has been made on the date and place of a meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters. 
I can confirm that preparations for the meeting are underway, we have been talking about it for quite a while, he pointed out. As soon as there is full clarity on the date and place of the meeting, we will inform you, he added. We can’t provide any specific information at the moment, the Russian presidential spokesman noted. 
South Korea’s Yonhap news agency said earlier, citing sources in Moscow, that Kim Jong-un might visit Russia next week. According to the agency, the Russia-North Korea summit is likely to be held in the Far Eastern city of Vladivostok. Yonhap pointed out that on April 26-27, Putin is expected to attend the One Belt One Road forum in China. The agency’s sources believe that the Russian president’s meeting with Kim Jong-un will take place shortly before the event. 
Visa launches cash withdrawal pilot project in Russia 
According to the press release, the service for cash withdrawals in retail outlets is already available with Visa cards in the US, UK, Slovakia and Poland 
MOSCOW, April 15. /TASS/. International payment system Visa together with the Russian Agricultural Bank and The Parmezan retail chain launched a pilot project in Russia to withdraw cash at the store’s cash desks, according to the company’s press release. 
Visa announces technical implementation of cash withdrawal services at cash registers at trade and service enterprises in Russia. The service is currently being tested as a pilot in partnership with Russia’s The Parmesan retail chain and the Agricultural Bank, the company said. 
The plans for the payment system include making the service available throughout the country. According to the press release, the service for cash withdrawals in retail outlets is already available with Visa cards in the US, UK, Slovakia and Poland. 
Mastercard is actively working on expanding the partner network and connecting new retailers and banks, both acquirers and issuers, so that the service can be accessed by Mastercard from all Russian banks. Mastercard provides cash withdrawal service at cash points of sales outlets when paying for purchases with a card in dozens of countries around the world, the payment system’s press service told TASS. 
Putin urges heavy upgrade of Russian space industry 
The issues of improving state policy in the sphere of space activity are extremely important, the Russian president said 
MOSCOW, April 16. /TASS/. Russia needs to heavily upgrade its space industry and improve the sector’s management model, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at a Security Council meeting on Tuesday. 
It is obvious that it is necessary to fundamentally modernize the rocket and space industry, introduce the modern model of managing the production process, R&D work and learn to use the results of space activity in all the spheres of our life by a factor more efficiently, the Russian leader stressed. 
The issues of improving state policy in the sphere of space activity are extremely important, the Russian leader said. Leading positions in space exploration are essential for solving national development tasks, ensuring the country’s security, its technological and economic competitiveness, Putin noted. 
The Russian president believes that Russia has broad experience in developing and manufacturing space rocketry, implementing flights and large-scale scientific programs in orbit. However, Russia needs constantly to build up this potential, Putin stressed. 
The Russian leader drew attention to the need to involve the space industry’s potential for solving tasks in the sphere of telecommunications, communications, transport, medicine, housing and utilities. Building up exports is a key area, the Russian leader pointed out. 
In expert estimates, the world space market is worth $183 billion annually and is set to further expand in coming years and decades, he said. 
Putin urged the government, the agencies concerned and the Russian space agency Roscosmos to maximally use available competitive advantages instead of marking time. 
The Russian leader said it was necessary to complete Roscosmos’s reorganization and start working towards specific results, solving obvious problems that impeded the space industry’s development. 
For example, the price and time parameters projected in drafting space projects frequently lack due substantiation and, as a result, the planned timeframe is shifted while budget expenses increase. This has happened many times in recent years, the head of state said, calling for more active efforts to remove restraining factors. 
Two people killed in Tripoli shelling — media 
AFP earlier reported that shelling could be heard late on Tuesday in parts of Tripoli, and several powerful explosions were heard across the city 
MOSCOW, April 17. /TASS/. /TASS/. At least two people were killed and eight more injured in shelling of Libya's capital Tripoli on Tuesday evening, Reuters reported citing Tripoli's emergencies services. 
AFP earlier reported that shelling could be heard late on Tuesday in parts of Tripoli, and several powerful explosions were heard across the city. Thick smoke was seen rising in several parts of the city. 
Currently, there are two governments in Libya: Tripoli’s Government of National Accord led by Prime Minister Fayez al-Sarraj and recognized by the international community and the interim Cabinet of Abdullah Al-Thani who is acting in the country’s east together with the elected parliament and supported by the Libyan National Army of Field Marshal Khalifa Haftar. 
On April 4, Haftar announced the launch of an offensive on Tripoli. Meanwhile, Sarraj ordered all military units subordinate to him to brace for a defensive operation. 
On April 16, the World Health Organization said that at least 174 people were killed and another 756 injured in Tripoli. 
Moscow believes Damascus should retain control over northeastern Syria 
The Russian top diplomat also highlighted the need to build dialogue with the Kurds 
MOSCOW, April 17. /TASS/. Moscow believes that the legitimate Syrian government should retain control over the country’s northeastern region as soon as possible, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said at a press conference on Wednesday. 
There is a need to resolve the issue concerning the country’s northeast and the left bank of the Euphrates River in order to achieve one of the priority tasks and ensure the restoration of the legitimate government’s control over the region, Lavrov emphasized. 
When speaking about other important goals, the Russian top diplomat highlighted the need to build dialogue with the Kurds and secure the interests of Turkey as far as security in Syria’s border areas is concerned. 
Northeastern Syria is currently controlled by the Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF), which include the Kurdish People's Protection Units. The Syrian Democratic Forces are fighting against terrorists, while the US and its allies, who support the SDF, seek to destabilize the situation by supporting separatist sentiments among the Kurds and encouraging them to create an administration that would be independent from Damascus. Russia calls for ensuring Syria’s territorial integrity, restoring the legitimate government’s control over the country’s northeast and building dialogue between the Syrian authorities and the Kurds. 
Active preparations underway for Putin-Kim Jong-un meeting 
Russian presidential aide Yuri Ushakov said that Moscow had proposed several sites for the talks between the two leaders and active coordination was in progress 
MOSCOW, April 17. /TASS/. Active preparations are underway for a meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un. 
I can confirm that active preparations are being made for a possible meeting between Putin and Kim Jong-un, Russian presidential aide Yuri Ushakov told the media on Wednesday. Asked if such a meeting might take place in Vladivostok next week, Ushakov replied, It can take place at any venue, active preparations are being made. 
He added that Moscow had proposed several sites for the talks between the two leaders and active coordination was in progress. 
For now I cannot say anything about a date, Ushakov said, when asked when Russian and North Korean leaders were likely to might. 
Earlier, South Korean television channel KBS said Kim might arrive in Vladivostok for a summit meeting with the Russian president on April 23. 
Person suspected of terrorist activity detained in Crimea on border with Ukraine 
The person suspected of involvement in the activity of the Hizb ut-Tahrir, banned in Russia since 2003 
SIMFEROPOL, April 17. /TASS/. The Crimean branch of Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) has held a joint operation with border guards on the border with Ukraine to detain a person suspected of involvement in the activity of the Hizb ut-Tahrir al-Islami terrorist organization (outlawed in Russia), the regional branch reported on Wednesday. 
Upon crossing the Russian-Ukrainian border at the Armyansk checkpoint, a resident of the village of Kamenka from the Simferopol district was detained. He is suspected of participation in the activity of the Hizb ut-Tahrir al-Islami international terrorist organization, the FSB’s Crimean branch said. 
A criminal case has been opened against the suspect on charges stipulated by part 2, article 205.5 of Russia’s Criminal Code (Organizing the Activity of a Terrorist Group and Participating in the Activity of Such an Organization). 
Investigative measures are underway and a measure of restraint is being chosen for the suspect. 
Hizb ut-Tahrir al-Islami (the Party of Islamic Liberation) is an international religious and political organization founded in 1953. Its goal is to remove all non-Islamic governments and bring back Muslims to the truly Islamic way of life. 
Russia’s Supreme Court banned Hizb ut-Tahrir in 2003 designating it as a terrorist organization. 
Project 20385 corvette to put to sea for trials on Sunday 
ST. PETERSBURG, April 20. /TASS/. The Gremyashchy corvette, the lead ship of project 20385, will put to the Baltic Sea for trials on Sunday, April 21, Russian Navy Spokesman Igor Dygalo said on Saturday. 
On April 21, the newest frigate of project 22350 The Admiral Kasatonov and the corvette of project 20385 The Gremyashchy will put to sea from St. Petersburg’s Severnaya Verf shipyards for in-plant trials in the Baltic Sea, he said. 
The Gremyashchy is the lead corvette of project 20385 established as a result of modernization of platform project 20380. The displacement of ships of this type is 2,200 tonnes. They are equipped with Kalibr-NK cruise missile systems, Redut antiaircraft systems and Paket antisubmarine systems. 
The Admiral Kasatonov frigate is the second and first mass produced ship of project 22350. The lead ship of this type, The Admiral Gorshkov GM frigate, was put into operation in the Russian Navy in the summer of 2018. Ships of this type have a displacement of 4,500 tonnes and are capable of developing a speed of up to 29 knots. They are equipped with Oniks and Kalibr missile systems and Poliment-Redut antiaircraft systems. 
Lavrov says US applies twisted logic to Russian military personnel in Venezuela 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said earlier the Russian specialists had arrived in Venezuela in strict compliance with the country’s Constitution 
VLADIVOSTOK, April 21. /TASS/. The United States uses twisted logic when it accuses Russia of sending military specialists to do hardware maintenance in Venezuela at a time when Ukraine is crowded with military servicemen from NATO countries, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the TV channel Zvezda interviewer Olga Belova. 
There have been demands not a single Russian military serviceman should be left in Venezuela, because this is the wish of the United States, and no country located outside the Western Hemisphere has the right to be present there, he said. Our explanations the Russian military personnel are there under a contract for repairs and maintenance of military equipment, provided quite legally back in the 2000s, are just ignored. In the meantime, nobody mentions the fact US military and other NATO personnel - from Britain and Canada - have crowded Ukraine. 
Apparently, they follow the rule Quod licet Jovi, non licet bovi (What is permissible for Jove is not permissible for a bull), Lavrov said. This is a very twisted logic. It will not help our US counterparts. I do hope that they will understand this someday. 
He stressed the fact that the United States conducted a dialogue with Russia on issues that were of interest to it and that it was unable to handle on its own, just as it was the case with Afghanistan and with the Korean Peninsula’s nuclear problem. By and large the policy towards Russia stems exclusively from the wish to make us agree to unilateral domination and abandon the principles of international law, he added. 
Earlier, the daily El Comercio said two Russian planes - an Antonov-124 and Ilyushin-62 carrying Russian military personnel and 35 tonnes of cargo - arrived at Caracas airport on March 23. Their arrival was confirmed by the President of Venezuela’s Constituent Assembly Diosdado Cabello. 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said in a commentary the Russian specialists had arrived in Venezuela in strict compliance with the country’s Constitution. Zakharova said the stay of Russian specialists in Venezuela was governed by the agreement between the Russian and Venezuelan governments on military-technical cooperation concluded in May 2001 and properly ratified in both countries. 
Poroshenko recognizes his defeat at elections but says he is not quitting politics 
The president stressed that these were fair and transparent elections 
KIEV, April 21. /TASS/. Ukraine’s incumbent President Pyotr Poroshenko, who, according to the exit polls, is far behind his rival, candidate from the Servant of the People party, showman Vladimir Zelensky, has recognized the results of the voting but said he is not going to quit politics. 
Next month I will vacate the presidential office. This is the choice of Ukrainians. I accept this decision. But I want to stress that I am not quitting politics, he said, adding that these were fair and transparent elections held in conformity with European standards. 
He pledged that he and his team will keep on advocating reforms geared towards Ukraine’s membership in the European Union and NATO and consolidating the positions of the Ukrainian language in the country. He vowed to stand guard of the so-called Orthodox Church of Ukraine and promised to spare no effort at the upcoming parliamentary elections not to let a pro-Russian majority be formed in the Verkhovna Rada, or Ukraine’s national parliament. 
Ukrainian language bill unconstitutional, says Russian foreign ministry 
The bill approved by Verkhovna Rada on April 25 stipulates that all citizens from now on will be obliged to use the Ukrainian language in all spheres of life 
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova 
MOSCOW, April 25. /TASS/. The bill on protecting the Ukrainian language signifies the total Ukrainization of the country and contradicts its constitution, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova stated during Thursday’s briefing. 
In its essence, this is a law on forced and total Ukrainization. Its provisions include significant limitations, and in many cases a direct ban on the use of the Russian language and the languages of national minorities in various spheres of social life, she said. According to Zakharova, many provisions of this bill are in a direct contradiction of various international legal norms, as well as the Constitution of Ukraine. 
It is clear even now that we are dealing with a decision that only exacerbates the split in the Ukrainian society and leads further from the prospects of regulating the current crisis in Ukraine, she added. 
The bill approved by the Ukrainian Verkhovna Rada (parliament) on April 25 stipulates that all citizens from now on will be obliged to use the Ukrainian language in all spheres of life. Special language inspectors will monitor compliance. They will be empowered to attend the meetings of any bodies of power, to demand documents from non-governmental organizations and political parties for examination and set fines. 
Russian diplomat slams US for undermining arms control accords 
The nuclear arms reduction process should be multilateral and gradual, Ryabkov noted 
MOSCOW, April 26. /TASS/. The United States is trying to undermine all non-proliferation and arms control agreements, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said at a press briefing on Friday in the run-up to the third session of the preparatory committee of the 2020 NPT Review Conference. 
The United States has been for decades undermining the multilateral equal cooperation principles to resolve the most pressing international security issuess that had been meticulously developed for years and carefully preserved, he said. Actually, there is not a single multilateral non-proliferation or arms control agreement, which the US did not try to undermine or from which it did not withdraw. 
The nuclear arms reduction process should be multilateral and gradual, Ryabkov noted. 
Our stance is that the process of reducing nuclear weapons can be gradual and based solely on the indivisible and unified security principle. It is essential to make the nuclear disarmament process multilateral. All actions in this regard should be based on consensus in the interests of all countries, he said. 
Russia’s Army Forum turns into world’s largest arms show, defense chief says 
This year, the Defense Ministry expects over 130 states and 1,500 enterprises to attend the forum to demonstrate almost 27,000 military products 
MOSCOW, April 26. /TASS/. Russia’s Army Forum has turned into the world’s largest arms show, Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said on Friday. 
Five years ago, when we were developing the event’s concept, we perceived it as the world’s largest exhibition of armament and military hardware aimed at promoting domestic military products and strengthening inter-state cooperation for creating advanced weapons. The idea has materialized, Shoigu said at a meeting with the country’s top brass. 
Last year, more than 1,200 enterprises and organizations took part in the forum, showcasing over 26,000 product items and R&D developments. This year, the Defense Ministry expects over 130 states and 1,500 enterprises to attend the forum to demonstrate almost 27,000 military products, Shoigu said. 
The organizers of the Army Forum are planning to considerably increase the aviation cluster and exposition on the Syria operation in 2019, the defense minister said. 
The Army-2019 Military and Technical Forum will run on June 25-30 at the Patriot Park, the Kubinka airfield and the Alabino range near Moscow. 
Justice Ministry confers right to work in Russia to Hong Kong, sport arbitration tribunals 
The Hong Kong International Arbitration Center is one of the most reputed international commercial tribunals in Asia 
MOSCOW, April 29. /TASS/. The Russian Ministry of Justice conferred the right to work in Russia to the Hong Kong international arbitration and to the sports arbitration, the Ministry said on Monday on its website. 
Directives of the Russian Ministry of Justice were signed on April 25, 2019 concerning inclusion of the Hong Kong International Arbitration Center into the list of foreign arbitration institutions recognized as permanent arbitration institutions and on provision of the right to the autonomous nonprofit organization Sports Arbitration Chamber to exercise functions of the permanent arbitration institution, the Ministry said. 
The number of arbitration tribunals for trial of disputes other than in state courts increased to six from the time when the new law on public court arbitration (arbitration) carried into effect in September 2016. 
About Hong Kong arbitration 
The Hong Kong International Arbitration Centre (HKIAC) founded in 1985 is one of the most reputed international commercial tribunals in Asia. The Hong Kong arbitration took the opportunity of being provided with the right of the permanent arbitration in Russia. This also makes it possible for HKIAC to consider internal disputes between companies located in special administrative regions of Russia. 
About sports arbitration 
Establishment of the sports arbitration is stipulated by the Russian law on physical training and sports for settlement of disputes in the sphere of the high performance sports between athletes, coaches, sport clubs and federation, including individual labor disputes of athletes and coaches and disputes relates to doping. 
Foreign investors show interest in agricultural projects in Crimea 
Russian Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Alexey Gruzdev believes Crimea has a huge potential as a unique international tourist center 
BEIJING, April 29. /TASS/. Foreign investors are increasingly interested in potential of the agricultural sector of the republic of Crimea, Russian Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Alexey Gruzdev told TASS. 
Gruzdev is the Commissioner General of Russian participation in the International Horticultural Exhibition EXPO-2019. 
At all levels, we are marking the growing interest of foreign investors. We will welcome the participation of Chinese companies in projects in the Republic of Crimea, he said. 
Thanks to its environmental conditions and active development of infrastructure this region is of great interest for investment projects, in particular in agriculture. The Yalta International Economic Forum, which was held recently, reaffirmed this, he added. 
According to the Deputy Minister, Crimea has a huge potential as a unique international tourist center with wide recreational opportunities, fantastic nature and ancient historical monuments. 
EXPO-2019 
The International Horticultural Exhibition EXPO 2019 with the participation of 86 countries and 24 international organizations is held in Beijing from April 29 to October 7. 
According to the organizing committee, the exposition area covers 960 hectares. The main theme of the exhibition - Live Green, Live better - expresses the desire of the mankind for a greater harmony with nature. 
The theme of Russia’s site at the expo is Russian garden: from roots to fruits. 
The territory, which houses three art objects, symbolizing the harmony of nature and man in modern parks, exceeds 1,800 square meters. It recreated landscapes illustrating the biological diversity of the middle zone and the Far East, the Crimea and the Caucasus of Russia. Representatives of many countries of the world, including North Korea, showed interest in the Russian exposition. TASS acts as the general information partner of the exhibition. 
Georgian Foreign Ministry denies report on president’s canceled visit to US 
Earlier in the day, the Rustavi 2 broadcaster reported citing its sources that Zourabichvili’s visit to the US scheduled for this autumn had been canceled 
TBILISI, May 2. /TASS/. Georgian President Salome Zourabichvili’s official visit to the United States has not been canceled and efforts are underway for holding it, the Foreign Ministry told TASS on Thursday. 
The report that allegedly the Georgian side’s request on the Georgian president’s visit to the US has been rejected, does not correspond to reality. The work on the president’s visit via diplomatic channels is underway. It’s early to say about the date of the visit, the ministry said. 
Acting US Ambassador to Georgia Ross Wilson has also confirmed that the effort on organizing the president’s visit to the US was ongoing. 
Earlier in the day, the Rustavi 2 broadcaster reported citing its sources that Zourabichvili’s visit to the US scheduled for this autumn had been canceled. 
Earlier, Zourabichvili told VOA's Georgian Service in an interview in Tbilisi published on Wednesday that the construction of US military base in Georgia is inadvisable and may be viewed as a provocation. According to Zourabichvili, a former French diplomat who became Georgia’s first woman president in December 2018, Georgia needs to deepen ties with Washington, but should not take any steps, which would provoke other countries. This Zourabichvili’s statement has been condemned by the Georgian opposition, which threatened to impeach the president. 
Georgia and the United States signed the Charter on Strategic Partnership in 2009. Since 1994, Tbilisi has been boosting its cooperation with NATO and has stated many times about its desire to join the alliance. In August 2015, the Georgia-NATO Joint Training and Evaluation Center (JTEC) was opened at a military base in Krtsanisi near Tbilisi. 
In 2016, the Defense Institution Building School was inaugurated in Tbilisi, and in May 2018 a combat training center was opened in Vaziani, near the Georgian capital, with the US assistance. This center, similar to the German base Hohenfels, is designed to train Georgian military. This April, Georgian Defense Minister Levan Izoria put forward a proposal to provide the US and NATO countries with Georgia’s military infrastructure for holding drills. 
Ukrainian president-elect expresses condolences over Russian plane crash 
According to recent data, 41 people died as a result of the plane crash at Moscow's Sheremetyevo airport 
KIEV, May 6. /TASS/. Ukrainian President-Elect Vladimir Zelensky has expressed condolences over the Sukhoi Superjet 100 plane crash at Moscow’s Sheremetyevo Airport. 
Human life is the supreme value. Our military casualties and tragedies such as the Sri Lanka terrorist attacks and the Sheremetyevo plane crash remind us that human life needs to be protected. Nothing can bring back those who lost their lives. Our hearts go out to their families, we remember those who are not with us anymore, he wrote on Facebook on Monday. 
On Sunday, a Sukhoi Superjet 100 operated by Russia’s national airline Aeroflot crash-landed at Sheremetyevo airport. The flight, en route from Moscow to Murmansk, had a total of 78 people on board. According to recent data, the accident killed 41. Six were hospitalized, the Russian Health Ministry said. 
An investigation has been opened under Article 263.3 of the Russian Criminal Code (air safety violations leading to two or more deaths by negligence). Several causes for the crash are being considered, including weather conditions, a technical malfunction and the pilots’ incompetence. 
Trump orders to raise tariffs on $300 bln worth of Chinese goods 
WASHINGTON, May 11. /TASS/. US President Donald Trump has requested introducing tariffs on another $300 bln worth of Chinese goods, the Office of the US Trade Representative Robert Lighthizer said in a statement on Friday. 
Earlier today, at the direction of the President, the United States increased the level of tariffs from 10% to 25% on approximately $200 billion worth of Chinese imports. The President also ordered us to begin the process of raising tariffs on essentially all remaining imports from China, which are valued at approximately $300 billion, the statement said. 
The details regarding tariffs will be made public on Monday. 
On Friday, Trump announced that the US and China intended to pursue the talks despite the fact that the American side introduced tariffs on Chinese goods. President noted that those tariffs may or may not be removed depending on what happens with respect to future negotiations.. 
Bodies of three tourists who died in Altai delivered to Novosibirsk 
A tourist group of nine people got caught in an avalanche in the Southern Chuya Range on May 6 
NOVOSIBIRSK, May 13. /TASS/. The bodies of three tourists who died in the Altai Region last week were delivered to Novosibirsk. Novosibirsk Mayor Anatoly Lokot said about it at an urgent meeting in the Novosibirsk Region government on Monday. 
A tourist group of nine people got caught in an avalanche in the Southern Chuya Range on May 6. Only two women survived the avalanche reported about the fact on May 8. First responders found five bodies on the site; the operation was suspended for about six weeks due to the danger of an avalanche. 
Four out of seven missing tourists <…> are Novosibirsk residents; the bodies of three of them were delivered to Novosibirsk today, Lokot said. 
The mayor noted that the authorities are ready to help the bereaved families. We are keeping in contact with the families and rendering support to them, he added. 
Five recovered bodies were identified, according to previous reports. The funerals for three deceased members of the group will be held on May 12 and 13, according to information published on the VKontakte page for mountain tourism of the Novosibirsk State University. 
Sweden reopens sexual misconduct case against Assange 
The United States also plans to file an official extradition request for Assange before June 14 
A man with a picture of Wikileaks founder Julian Assange 
MOSCOW, May 13. /TASS/. /TASS/. Sweden’s Prosecution Authority has re-opened the 2010 rape and sexual misconduct case against WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange, Eva-Marie Persson, a deputy director of public prosecutions, said on Monday. 
On account of Julian Assange leaving the Ecuadorian embassy, the circumstances in this case have changed, she said. I take the view that there exists the possibility to take the case forward. 
According to Persson, the United States also plans to file an official extradition request for Assange before June 14, 2019. However, she refused to comment on Assange’s possible extradition to Sweden. 
The Swedish Prosecution Authority is also looking at organizing a new interview with Assange either by means of a videoconference or in the United Kingdom. 
Assange founded the WikiLeaks portal in 2006 to publish classified information about the activities of a number of governments, including that of the United States. After harassment charges had been brought against him in Sweden in 2012, Assange sought refuge at the Ecuadorian Embassy in London to escape extradition. The rape case was dropped in 2017 but the United Kingdom continued to insist that Assange be arrested over his failure to appear in court in London. 
The WikiLeaks founder was eventually arrested by the United Kingdom’s Metropolitan Police on April 11 after Ecuador’s President Lenin Moreno had announced the withdrawal of his asylum. His lawyers say that if extradited to the United States, Assange may face a 35-year prison term or capital punishment. The US Department of Justice has said, though, that Assange may get a five-year prison term at most for computer hacking. On May 1, Assange was sentenced to 50 weeks in jail for breaching his British bail conditions. 
In was reported on Sunday that Ecuador’s chief prosecutor’s office decided to search the room Assange had spent the latest seven year in. All the documents, cell phones, computers and other devices are expected to be handed over to the United States. The search is scheduled for May 20. 
Russia believes it will be possible to agree on extending New START 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov added that Moscow was concerned about the re-equipment of US submarines and bombers capable of carrying nuclear weapons 
SOCHI, May 14. /TASS/. Russia believes it will be able to reach an agreement with the US on extending the New Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty (New START), Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told reporters on Tuesday at a joint news conference with US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo. 
We proceed from the assumption that we will be able to reach an agreement [on extending the accord] within the framework of the bilateral joint advisory commission, he noted. 
Lavrov added that Moscow was concerned about the re-equipment of US submarines and bombers capable of carrying nuclear weapons. 
The treaty envisages specific procedures, which should make it possible for the other party to ensure that this re-equipment is done in such a way as to make a return to the nuclear capabilities of respective launchers and bombers impossible, he stressed. These issues are discussed by the joint advisory commission overseeing the implementation of the treaty, and we hope that this discussion will yield positive results.. 
OPEC+ monitoring committee won’t make recommendations on output volume on Sunday 
The ministerial meeting in late June will focus on the oil reserves, Kazakh Deputy Energy Minister Magzum Mirzagaliyev said 
JEDDAH, May 19. /TASS/. The Joint OPEC/Non-OPEC Ministerial Monitoring Committee (JMMC) is not planning to give any recommendations on Sunday for the June ministerial meeting on the output volume, and will only assess the current market situation, Kazakh Deputy Energy Minister Magzum Mirzagaliyev told reporters. 
The format does not envisage making any recommendations. At the JMMC we will just discuss the market situation. On this basis in June some decisions will be made. We will carry out an analysis and study the situation on the market and later in June the decision will be made, the deputy minister said on the sidelines of the meeting. 
The ministerial meeting in late June will focus on the oil reserves, Mirzagaliyev said. In my view, the key issue will be not about how much OPEC+ countries produce, but about the level of reserves. We thought that the reserves would decrease. And we see that actually this is happening not that actively. That’s why I think in the coming month we need to monitor this, he said. 
The ministerial meeting of the OPEC+ monitoring committee in the Saudi city of Jeddah will be held on Sunday. Eight countries are members of the ministerial monitoring committee: Saudi Arabia, Russia, Kuwait, Algeria, Venezuela, as well as the recently invited United Arab Emirates, Kazakhstan and Iraq. Russia and Saudi Arabia co-chair the committee. After the meeting the ministers will announce the results of the implementation of the Vienna deal on cutting the output. A source earlier told TASS that in April the deal had been fulfilled at 168%. 
Zelensky promises to do everything possible so that 'Ukrainians don’t cry' in next 5 years 
KIEV, May 20. /TASS/. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky promised to do his utmost that Ukrainians do not cry in the next five years of his presidency during his inauguration speech on Monday. 
Dear people, in the course of my life I was trying to make Ukrainians smile, I felt it in my heart, this was not my job, but rather a mission. In the next five years I will do everything possible that you, Ukrainians, do not cry, he said in Verkhovna Rada. 
The inauguration ceremony was attended by four former Ukrainian Presidents and around 60 foreign guests, particularly, the Presidents of Latvia, Lithuania, Estonia, Georgia and Hungary, Turkish Vice President, Moldavian Prime Minister, head of Azerbaijani government, Vice Prime Ministers of Belarus, Romania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, a US delegation headed by Secretary of Energy Rick Perry, as well as US Special Representative for Ukraine Kurt Volker and others. 
Zelensky has chance to make history as peacemaker, says Russian senator 
In particular, Chairman of the Russian Federation Council’s Foreign Affairs Committee Konstantin Kosachev welcomed Zelensky’s statement calling the Donbass ceasefire his primary goal 
MOSCOW, May 20. /TASS/. New Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky can go down in the history books as a peacemaker if he manages to settle the Donbass conflict, which he did not start, Chairman of the Russian Federation Council’s (upper house) Foreign Affairs Committee, Senator Konstantin Kosachev said on Monday. 
Zelensky truly has a unique opportunity to put an end to the war which he did not start and make Ukrainian history as a peacemaker. Because continuation or non-continuation of the fighting depends solely on the central Ukrainian authorities. He just needs to stop waging the war on his own people, Kosachev wrote on his official Facebook page. 
He pointed out that it is simultaneously very easy, as one order from the Commander-in-Chief will suffice, and extremely difficult, as they will be forced to give up the rhetoric of external aggression and so on, which spanned for many years. However, it seems that for the sake of such a great goal, for the sake of saving lives in Donbass, this can be undertaken, he believes. 
In general, the senator welcomed Zelensky’s statement calling the Donbass ceasefire his primary goal. In any case, we are waiting for actions rather than words. And the long-suffering Donbass is waiting for them most of all, Kosachev clarified. 
According to him, the Russian address of the new President to the people of Donbass and Crimea with the message that they are not aliens for Ukraine is also not enough to understand what will be coming next. Fortunately, this is not pertinent to Crimea, but speaking of Donbass, the President’s words that in all these years the authorities did nothing for them to feel that they are Ukrainians are quite true, Kosachev underlined. 
At the same time, the senator recalled that on April 25 Verkhovna Rada passed the law on provision of the functioning of the Ukrainian language as the state language, which will be discussed in the UN Security Council on May 20. And when Zelensky theatrically saying that not only territories should be returned, but also the people, then adopting laws that restrict their right to use their native language is not the best way to return them back under Ukrainian jurisdiction, Kosachev concluded. 
On Monday, Vladimir Zelensky was sworn as the Ukrainian President during an official ceremony in Verkhovna Rada. 
US to continue attempts to stage coup in Venezuela, Russian Foreign Ministry says 
Moscow will continue to resist attempts to stage a coup in Venezuela, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov said 
MOSCOW, May 22. /TASS/. US-backed attempts to stage a coup in Venezuela will continue, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov told reporters on Wednesday. 
We will continue to resist attempts to stage a coup in Venezuela that have been a failure so far. However, these attempts will continue at the US behest, he said. 
Situation in Venezuela 
On January 23, Juan Guaido, Venezuelan opposition leader and parliament speaker, whose appointment to that position had been cancelled by the country’s Supreme Court, declared himself interim president at a rally in the country’s capital of Caracas. 
Several countries, including the United States, Lima Group members (excluding Mexico), Australia, Albania, Georgia and Israel, as well as the Organization of American States, recognized him. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro, in turn, blasted the move as a coup staged by Washington and said he was severing diplomatic ties with the US. On February 4, most of the European Union member states recognized Guaido as Venezuela’s interim president. In contrast, Russia, Belarus, Bolivia, Iran, Cuba, Nicaragua, El Salvador, Syria and Turkey voiced support for Maduro, while China called for resolving all differences peacefully and warned against foreign interference. The United Nations secretary general, in turn, called for dialogue to resolve the crisis. 
Return of capital to Russia shows growing confidence in country's economy, says Putin 
Earlier, he proposed extending capital amnesty for at least a year, but only for those who transfer funds to the Russian Federation and register businesses in special administrative zones 
MOSCOW, May 22. /TASS/. The return of capital to Russia is a sign of growing confidence in the national economy, President Vladimir Putin said at the congress of the Federation of Independent Trade Unions of Russia. 
As for the capital that is flowing away, it is really flowing away, but it is also flowing back, more and more. <...> The largest investments come to Russia from countries like Cyprus and the Netherlands. It's just the repatriation of capital. This suggests that there is trust in the economy, and it is growing, he said. 
However, Putin stressed that the credibility to protection of interests, in particular those of entrepreneurs, is not yet at a very high level. 
Therefore, [businessmen] often prefer to go to another jurisdiction, he explained. 
Earlier, Putin proposed extending capital amnesty for at least a year, but only for those individuals who transfer funds to the Russian Federation and register a business in special administrative zones. 
About capital amnesty 
Capital amnesty implies legalization of Russians’ foreign assets. The first stage of the amnesty took place from July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016, when the tax authorities collected about 7,200 declarations of foreign property and assets of Russians. 
The second stage started on March 1, 2018 and ended on February 28, 2019. During the second stage assets worth more than 10 billion euros were declared. In exchange, the claimants were released from tax, administrative and criminal liability for violations of tax and currency legislation. Amnesty applies to all income, transactions and transactions related to foreign assets and accounts. Those who wanted to return capital to Russia could do it without paying income tax or personal income tax. 
On March 6, the Finance Ministry submitted a bill on the third stage of capital amnesty. According to the document, owners of the assets abroad can submit declarations from May 1, 2019 to February 29, 2020. 
Press review: Erdogan resists US heat over S-400s and will Gulf states go to war with Iran 
Media: Erdogan resisting Washington’s ultimatum 
Ankara is ready to face sanctions over the purchase of Russia's S-400 missile systems, Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar said, commenting on the news about Washington’s ultimatum. The United States has given Turkey two weeks to change its mind and buy US-made Patriot systems instead of the S-400s. Otherwise, the production of F-35 components in Turkey will be halted and the country will receive no new aircraft, Kommersant writes. 
Ankara signed a contract to purchase the S-400 systems from Russia in September 2017. Four S-400 divisions cost the country $2.5 bln. The Pentagon said that no Russian-made weapons could be deployed to a NATO member state. The US Department of Defense believes that the S-400s will be able to spy on the F-35 and pass information about the fifth generation US fighter jets to the Russian military. 
According to Director of the Center for Analysis of Strategies and Technologies Ruslan Pukhov, it won’t be a problem for the US to move the F-35-related production facilities to another country. It can be done rather quickly because Turkey doesn’t make anything unique or too complicated, the expert told Kommersant. 
Washington’s harsh tone reflects the current foreign policy line of President Donald Trump who relies on force as far as diplomacy is concerned. The S-400 issue is just an excuse for Washington to show its discontent with Turkey’s position on Middle East issues, including Syria, international relations expert Vladimir Frolov pointed out. At the same time, Ankara’s persistence comes from its claims concerning northern Syria and US support for the Kurds. 
Washington’s ultimatum drives Erdogan into a corner. If he gives into the United States, it will mean a defeat leading to the loss of support from a part of the Turkish public so perhaps Erdogan won’t compromise his principles, political scientist Alexei Malashenko noted. However, the Turkish president is a rather pragmatic individual and he has repeatedly demonstrated his ability to maneuver. He can see that the deteriorating economic situation and a decline in the lira's exchange rate have already reduced the public support for him, which can be seen from the outcome of the March local elections. Erdogan is concerned that rising tensions with the US could exacerbate domestic problems, which would be hard to offset using rhetoric or calling on people to dump dollars, said head of the Turkish Department at the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Institute of Oriental Studies Natalya Ulchenko. Under these circumstances, the Turkish leader will try to buy as much time as possible and find a way to make concessions to the US so that Ankara’s image suffers the least possible damage. 
Nezavisimaya Gazeta: Persian Gulf states aim to avoid direct armed conflict with Iran 
The situation surrounding Iran raises a question: What can its regional rivals do if the standoff turns into an armed conflict? To find the answer to this question, leading members of the Gulf Cooperation Council plan to hold an emergency meeting in Mecca on May 30. Nezavisimaya Gazeta’s source in the Council ruled out a direct conflict between Iran and its neighbors, saying that a proxy war was looming. According to the source, military activities in Yemen may intensify. 
We think that only talks and discussions can present a real way out, the source noted. However, in his view, the situation around Iran will whip up tensions between Saudi Arabia and Yemen where Houthi rebels are active, and believed to be controlled by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps. Riyadh and other members of the Saudi-led coalition are directly involved in the hostilities in Yemen and carry out air strikes on Houthi positions. 
Tehran, in turn, has made it clear it doesn’t want an armed conflict. Under no circumstances will we enter a war, said Chairman of the Iranian Parliament’s Committee on National Security and Foreign Policy Heshmatollah Falahatpisheh. 
Experts believe that mounting hostilities in Yemen is the only thing that can escalate regional tensions, particularly given the recent Saudi oil pipeline incident. Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates have resources to step up military operations in Yemen using their own military forces, Director of the Islamic Research Center at the Institute of Innovation Development Kirill Semenov told the newspaper. However, it is fraught with losses. And it can hardly be described as a proxy war because the Houthis aren’t Iran’s proxy group and their defeat will in no way weaken Tehran. On the other hand, this conflict can be used for populist purposes, which means waging a war against the Houthis as if it were a war against Iran but not involving Iran, the expert noted. 
Izvestia: Zelensky's party to benefit from Ukraine’s snap election 
Ukraine’s snap parliamentary election, expected to be held on July 21, will play into the hands of President Vladimir Zelensky’s Servant of the People party. The Opposition Platform - For Life, led by Yuri Boiko and Viktor Medvedchuk, currently ranks second but its popularity may grow if the president chooses to pursue the anti-Russian policy course of his predecessor, said experts interviewed by Izvestia. 
Zelensky started to prepare the Verkhovna Rada for a new election in his very first minutes as president. According to experts, he needs to make sure he controls the parliament as soon as possible in order to implement his initiatives. 
Zelensky can take advantage of his popularity and push a large group of Servant of the People's members into parliament, said Institute for Peace Initiatives and Conflict Studies Director Denis Denisov. However, it remains to be seen if the president will have enough votes to ensure a majority. The expert pointed out that up to ten parties were capable of making it into the Verkhovna Rada. 
Meanwhile, the Opposition Platform’s rating largely depends on the popularity of Zelensky's party because both political forces rely on voters in Ukraine’s south and southeast. Director of the Kiev Center for Political Studies and Conflictology Mikhail Pogrebinsky told the paper that the snap election was unlikely to benefit Boiko, but his party could have secured more votes during the then anticipated October election. If Zelensky sticks to an anti-Russian policy, their rating will grow. He has already gathered people who plan to move in the same direction as before. The more anti-Russian decisions are made, the more people will tend to turn away from Zelensky and support Boiko and Medvedchuk, the Ukrainian political scientist emphasized. 
According to Denisov, the Opposition Platform has a lot to do in terms of voter education because up to 50% of the electorate actually support the party’s views but only ten percent back the party itself. 
Izvestia: Russian Central Bank head dismisses currency manipulation claims 
Russia’s Central Bank chief Elvira Nabiullina says there are no grounds to accuse Moscow of manipulating the ruble exchange rate, as she stated in an interview with Izvestia. 
We have a floating exchange rate. We don’t use currency interventions to support the ruble exchange rate at a certain level. The Central Bank purchases currencies for the Finance Ministry only under a budget rule aimed at ensuring the economy’s independence from oil prices and not at supporting certain exchange rates. There is absolutely no reason to accuse us of manipulating the exchange rate, Nabiullina pointed out. 
Bloomberg said earlier, citing sources that the US administration was going to expand the list of countries Washington suspected of currency manipulation. According to the news outlet, Indonesia, Ireland, Malaysia, Russia, Thailand and Vietnam may be included in the list. US President Donald Trump earlier accused the European Union, China and Russia of manipulating their currency rates. 
When speaking about recommendations for Russian banks in the event of a sanctions clampdown, which the Central Bank issued last fall, Nabiullina noted that they weren’t just recommendations, since we made plans for each bank, depending on its portfolio, assets and liabilities. We explained in detail what banks and the Central Bank would need to do, as quickly as possible, to resolve the problems banks might face. We maintain contacts and continue updating this information. Depending on what kind of sanctions may be imposed and what activities may be prohibited, we have come up with various options to make sure that bank clients are the least affected, the Russian Central Bank chief emphasized. 
Rossiyskaya Gazeta: Moscow ranked as tourism industry’s ‘Dawning Developers’ 
Moscow has been included in an international list of cities that may emerge as new attraction points on the global tourism map, as seen from the Destination 2030: Global cities’ readiness for tourism growth rating made by the World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) and the JLL company. Analysts put the Russian capital into the Dawning Developers category, pointing to the city’s up-to-date tourism infrastructure and the relatively small number of foreign guests, Rossiyskaya Gazeta writes. 
Before choosing a category for each of the 50 cities on the list, experts had analyzed data on 70 indicators, including the tourist market’s size, the level of infrastructure development, the cost of living and the municipal authorities’ tourism policy. By placing Moscow in the Dawning Developers category, they pointed to the city’s readiness for a tourism industry boom. 
Moscow needs visa restrictions to be eased to make sure that a tourism boom takes place, otherwise it is hard to persuade travelers from the United States and European countries to visit, Alexei Tsyganov, an aide to the chairman of the Federation Council Committee for Foreign Affairs, told the newspaper. According to him, most American tourists enter Russia through St. Petersburg’s port under the 72-hour visa-free entry rule for cruise ship passengers. 
Given tourists’ interest in Russia, global cruise liners make an exception for St. Petersburg, stopping there for two days instead of one, Tsyganov pointed out. Foreign tourists spend one day in Russia’s cultural capital and on the second day, they take a Sapsan high-speed train to Moscow. In the first year after visa-free entry was granted to cruise ship passengers, their number rose from 250,000 to 570,000. And since only 25.7 mln travelers in the world choose this kind of tours, it is a good figure, Tsyganov noted. 
TASS is not responsible for the material quoted in the press review 
Belarus, Russia agree on roadmap for replacement of low-quality oil 
Belarusian concern Belneftekhtim also noted that, according to the plans, the parties will start paper work and practical implementation of the roadmap from May 24 
MINSK, May 23. /TASS/. Belarus and Russia have finally agreed on the roadmap for replacement of low quality oil in the Druzhba pipeline, Belarusian concern Belneftekhtim reported on Thursday. 
Today in Moscow, Deputy Prime Minister of Belarus Igor Lyashenko and Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak agreed on a roadmap of technical measures to replace the oil containing organic chlorides oil in the Belarusian part of the Druzhba pipeline with clean oil and resume oil transit to the west, the company said, as quoted the BelTA agency. 
The company also noted that, according to the plans, the parties will start paper work and practical implementation of the roadmap from May 24. 
The representatives of Belneftekhim and Russia’s Energy Ministry also attended the talks. 
Druzhba pipeline incident 
On April 19, Belarusian concern Belneftekhim reported a sharp deterioration of the quality of the Russian oil running through the Druzhba oil pipeline and subsequently informed pipeline operators from other countries about the situation. The content of organochloride compounds in oil was dozens of times above the limit value, the company said. 
On April 24, Belarus stopped the transit of contaminated Russian oil to Europe. Both Belarusian refineries - Mozyr Refinery and Naftan reported on the threat of equipment damage and reduced refining volumes by almost 50%. They also had to suspend the export of light petroleum products to Ukraine, Poland and the Baltic countries. 
The source of pollution was found on the Samara-Unecha stretch of the pipeline. The Russian authorities promised to solve the problem with the oil contamination as soon as possible. 
Good quality oil was delivered to the border of Belarus through the Druzhba pipeline on May 2, and at the Mozyr line operations control station on May 4. 
Russia establishes visa-free regime with all Latin American countries 
Suriname was the last Latin American country to introduce visa-free travel for Russian nationals 
Russian Foreign Ministry's official spokeswoman Maria Zakharova 
MOSCOW, May 23. /TASS/. Russians need no entry visas to visit all the 12 South American countries now that a bilateral visa-free travel agreement with Suriname came into force, Russian Foreign Ministry's official spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Thursday. 
An agreement between the governments of Russia and Suriname on visa-free travel for the two countries’ citizens came into effect on May 13, she said. It is an important, milestone event — from now the entire space of South America, with its 12 countries, is a visa-free zone for Russians. 
According to Zakharova, visa-free travel between Russia and South American countries opens wide possibilities for the development of business, cultural, humanitarian and tourist contacts. Favorable conditions are being created for expanding the entire spectrum of relations with this region, she stressed, adding that Moscow plans to take further steps to expand the geography of visa-free travel for Russian nationals. 
Pilot Yaroshenko complains of health deterioration in American prison - spouse 
Russian pilot has applied for a liver examination because of deteriorating health after surgery to remove tumors from his stomach 
ROSTOV-ON-DON, May 25. / TASS /. Russian pilot Konstantin Yaroshenko, who is serving a 20-year sentence in an American prison in Danbury, Connecticut, has applied for a liver examination because of deteriorating health after surgery to remove tumors from his stomach, the pilot's wife Victoria Yaroshenko told TASS on Saturday. 
Earlier, Yaroshenko repeatedly complained of toothaches and stomach problems. His condition did not improve after the removal of a number of benign tumors from his stomach, the doctors advised to check the liver, but it was necessary to file a request for a new procedure. Also on Friday, it became known that the Human Rights Ombudsman in Russia Tatyana Moskalkova appealed to the US Attorney General to transfer the prisoner to Russia, given the progressive deterioration of his health. 
He sent a request [for a liver examination] to the medical unit, his wife said, noting that the problems that the husband had before the recent operation returned. His health worsened in that after the surgery, the illness signs are back, stomach pains and everything else, she added. 
Russian Ambassador to the US Anatoly Antonov notified Yaroshenko via letter that the US Department of Justice is considering Russia’s request for his extradition in accordance with the 1983 Convention on the Transfer of Sentenced Persons. 
Yaroshenko case 
Yaroshenko was arrested in Liberia in May 2010, and was later clandestinely transferred to the United States. In September 2011, he was found guilty of conspiring to smuggle a major cocaine shipment into the US, and sentenced to 20 years behind bars. However, Yaroshenko pleaded not guilty, saying that his arrest was a setup and the case was fabricated. 
The Russian was first sent to the Fort Dix Federal Correctional Institution, but in mid-June, 2018, he was first transferred to a transit prison in Brooklyn, New York, and then to the Danbury prison, which holds more than 1,400 inmates. 
Yaroshenko’s wife Viktoria said earlier that doctors at the Danbury prison had removed benign tumors from his stomach. 
Russian officials and the pilot’s family have on numerous occasions requested that Washington extradite him to Russia. 
NATO demands release of Ukrainian sailors detained in Russia 
NATO has made repeatedly clear that there was no justification for Russia’s use of military force against Ukrainian ships and military personnel 
BRUSSELS, May 26. /TASS/. NATO continues to demand the release of Ukrainian sailors and warships detained in Russia in the wake of the November 2018 Kerch Strait incident, a NATO official informed TASS on Sunday, citing the verdict of the International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea (ITLOS). 
NATO has made repeatedly clear that there was no justification for Russia’s use of military force against Ukrainian ships and military personnel. We continue to call on Russia to release the Ukrainian sailors and ships without delay, the official stated. 
On November 25, 2018, three Ukrainian warships, en route from Odessa to Mariupol, illegally crossed Russia’s state border, entered Russia’s territorial waters in the Kerch Strait and started performing dangerous maneuvers. Despite the repeated warnings and demands to stop, the Ukrainian vessels continued their way, forcing Russia to use weapons. All three Ukrainian ships were detained in the Black Sea. Twenty-four Ukrainian sailors have been detained and are currently at detention facilities in Moscow. 
On Saturday, the ITLOS ruled that Russia must release 24 Ukrainian sailors and hand the three naval vessels back. The ITLOS urged the two sides to refrain from taking any action which might aggravate or extend the dispute.. 
Russia ready for contacts with Ukraine’s parliament after elections — upper house speaker 
According to Valentina Matviyenko, Russia would like to establish normal, good-neighborly relations with Kiev and the fraternal Ukrainian people 
MOSCOW, May 28. /TASS/. Russia is prepared to develop contacts with Ukrainian parliamentarians after the elections to the Verkhovna Rada, but without any unnecessary conditions on their part, Speaker of the Russian Federation Council (upper house of parliament) Valentina Matviyenko told TASS on Tuesday. 
We are ready for contacts, but without the policy of dictating, without any artificial, unnecessary conditions. Let’s start from scratch, analyze the current state of affairs and how we can remedy the situation and move ahead together, she said. 
We are open to and ready for dialogue. We are waiting for such signals from new [Verkhovna] Rada members and are ready to work to restore and normalize Russian-Ukrainian relations, she added. 
According to the speaker, Russia would like to establish normal, good-neighborly relations with Kiev and the fraternal Ukrainian people. If the [Verkhovna] Rada is interested in reviving the dialogue with Russia, we will only welcome that, she stressed. 
Matviyenko expressed the hope that the elections to the Ukrainian parliament would be civilized and democratic and that lawmakers committed to resolving economic issues facing the country and improving living standards of the population would be elected to it. 
The country is currently in a dire economic situation. I hope that lawmakers will be concerned about the declining living standards of the population and about the fact that more than 10 million people, according to Ukrainians themselves, went to other countries in search of a better life, she added. 
Vladimir Zelensky was sworn in as Ukraine’s new President on May 20. On May 21, he signed a decree dissolving the Verkhovna Rada (Ukrainian parliament) and announcing snap parliamentary elections scheduled for July 21. 
Russian detained in Kosovo has been set free, UN Secretariat confirms 
UNITED NATIONS, May 28. /TASS/. Russian national Mikhail Krasnoshchekov, a member of the UN Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo UNMIK, has been released, the UN Secretary General’s deputy spokesman Farhan Haq told TASS on Tuesday. 
It has been confirmed that the Russian staff member has been released, he said. 
Special police units of unrecognized Kosovo on Tuesday morning intruded into northern municipalities of Kosovo and Metohija. Two Serbs were slightly injured in shootouts. Serbia’s President Aleksandar Vucic in a message to legislators said that Kosovo’s police had detained 23 people, including Russia’s Mikhail Krasnoshchekov, a staffer of the UN mission in Kosovo. Vucic said that at the moment of detention the Russian was beaten up. According to the UN mission Krasnoshchekov is now in hospital. 
The Russian embassy in Serbia strongly condemned the intrusion of Kosovo’s forces into the north of Kosovo and Metohija and demanded Krasnoshchekov’s immediate release. 
Macron says he is ready to organize Normandy format meeting when conditions are right 
French President Emmanuel Macron said he needs to start dialogue with new Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky first 
BRUSSELS, May 28. /TASS/. French President Emmanuel Macron has said that he is ready to organize a meeting in the Normandy format when political conditions are present. 
I would want this. I will organize it since France should take the initiative when the opportunity presents itself. We will have contacts [with new Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky]. I will talk to him very soon, we will start a new dialogue, which will possible be followed by a visit. As soon as political conditions are present, we will do this [organize a meeting in the Normandy format], Macron told reporters after the EU summit in Brussels. 
On May 21, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Macron held telephone talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. The sides discussed ways to move forward in the implementation of the Minsk Agreements after the presidential election in Ukraine. After that, Merkel held telephone talks with new Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky. Both sides confirmed the importance of comprehensive implementation of the Minsk Agreements and noted interest in continuing close cooperation in the framework of the Normandy format. 
Venezuela's economy shrinks by almost 50% in last 5 years — Central Bank 
Venezuela has been going through an acute social-economic crisis over the last few years 
CARACAS, May 29. /TASS/. Venezuelan economy shrunk by 47.7% since 2013, the country's Central Bank said in a report released on Tuesday. 
According to the report, inflation in Venezuela reached 130,060% in 2018. The last report was released by Venezuela's Central Bank in 2015. After that, the authorities temporarily suspended publication of inflation data, saying that this issue resembles an economic war. 
The report said that revenue from oil sales stood at around $29.8 bln in 2018, which is 5.6% less than in the previous year. 
Venezuela has been going through an acute social-economic crisis over the last few years, accompanied by the devaluation of national currency and hyperinflation. The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said that inflation in Venezuela may reach 10 mln percent by the end of 2019. 
Innodisk's Fire Shield SSD(TM) Withstanding over 800 degrees Celsius of Direct Flames 
Years of experimentation and innovative design has culminated in Innodisk's newest Black Box data storage device for transportation and in-vehicle recording, the Fire Shield SSD(TM) 
TAIPEI, Taiwan, May 29, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- After many trials and a lengthy design process, the Fire Shield SSD™ has passed its baptism of fire. After having been bathed in direct flames at 800 degrees Celsius for more than 30 minutes, comparisons show 100% data accuracy before and after tests. The U.S. patent has already been granted USPTO. 
The Fire Shield SSD™ design borrows from the concept of black boxes. It is placed inside vehicles and public transportation for the purpose of facilitating accident investigation. Modern vehicles are designed with safety in mind. But no matter the safety measures, fire is always a risk. In the US alone, there are more than 400 fire-related vehicle accidents every year, and what is often forgotten is the importance of data after such an accident, as it might be the only clue to the underlying causes. This is why Innodisk has created the Fire Shield SSD™. 
In order to simulate conditions of a high-temperature accident scenario and to test the robustness of the device, Innodisk's Fire Shield SSD™ was bathed in the direct flame for 30 minutes at 1500 Fahrenheit (800 degrees Celsius). The result amply demonstrated the robustness and data preservation of Innodisk's newest innovation. 
The Fire Shield SSD™ consists of a triple layer of protection between the environment and the core components. The layers include flame-resistant copper alloy, drive-protecting connector design, and heat-isolating lining material. By combining more than 20 different heat-resistant materials with low heat-conducting properties, the SSD effectively shields the NAND flash from extreme heat. 
Innodisk's Fire Shield SSD™ is available as a SATA 3.5 SSD form factor and will be displayed at Innodisk's booth at this year's Computex in Taipei. 
About Innodisk 
Featured on Forbes' Asia's 200 Best Under A Billion companies, Innodisk is a service-driven provider of flash memory, DRAM modules and embedded peripheral products for the industrial and enterprise applications. With satisfied customers across the embedded, aerospace and defense, cloud storage markets and more, we have set ourselves apart with a commitment to provide customizable, dependable solutions and unparalleled service. 
Hackers failed to derail 2018 FIFA World Cup with over 25 mln cyber attacks against Russia 
Presidential Special Representative for International Cooperation on Cybersecurity Andrei Krutskikh pointed out that ensuring national security is an enduring process 
MOSCOW, May 29. /TASS/. Russia came up against over 25 million cyberattacks that were aimed at derailing the 2018 FIFA World Cup, Russian Presidential Special Representative for International Cooperation on Cybersecurity, Andrei Krutskikh, revealed in an interview with TASS. 
Our country’s leadership has repeatedly publicized the numbers of those attacks made in the past, for example, during the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, he said. The latest data was about the attempts to derail the FIFA World Cup [in 2018]. At that time, over 25 million cyberattacks of all sorts targeted Russia from abroad. 
The results of the championship show that our armored train - a sort of cyber train - is on the sidetrack that let us successfully defend our national cyberspace and host major events, Krutskikh stressed. 
The expert cited a Red Army song of the early 20th century, containing the following renowned lyrics: We’re a peaceful people, but we’ve got an armored train on the sidetrack. 
Krutskikh pointed out that ensuring national security is an enduring process. 
The relevant authorities are undoubtedly taking care of this, he added. 
Russian lower house to support INF suspension bill 
State Duma Defense Committee Chairman Vladimir Shamanov said Russia is not planning to immediately start manufacturing intermediate-range/shorter-range missiles after the suspension of the Treaty 
MOSCOW, May 30. /TASS/. The State Duma (Parliament’s lower chamber) will support the bill on suspending the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty (INF) submitted by Russian President Vladimir Putin, the chamber’s speaker Vyacheslav Volodin told reporters on Thursday. 
We believe it is right to support the President who introduced the bill on suspending the INF Treaty signed by the Soviet Union and the United States, the speaker said. There is no doubt that we would like to see global security supported by all the countries, therefore, we provide the President with an opportunity to restore the Treaty, should the situation change, he added. 
State Duma Defense Committee Chairman Vladimir Shamanov told reporters that Russia is not planning to immediately start manufacturing intermediate-range and shorter-range missiles shortly after the suspension of the INF Treaty, 
This is not an easy question because in order to technologically develop production, time is needed as well as an assessment how many such missiles are needed and against whom we will target them, Shamanov, the former Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Airborne Troops, said. 
We are not setting this goal, Shamanov stressed. 
Russia wraps up experimental design work on upgrading airborne command posts 
Engineers have started modernizing airborne command posts based on the Il-80 and Il-82 
NIZHNY NOVGOROD, May 30. /TASS/. Russia has wrapped up its experimental design work on upgrading airborne command posts based on Ilyushin Il-80 and Il-82 planes and is re-equipping operational aircraft, Deputy Defense Minister Alexei Krivoruchko said on Thursday. 
Now we have started modernizing airborne command posts based on the Il-80 and Il-82. The [Polyot Research and Production] Enterprise is the chief developer of the onboard communications and control system and has successfully wrapped up its experimental design work on its upgrade, the defense official said during his visit to the Polyot defense manufacturer. 
The deputy defense minister said he hoped that the scientific and technical potential accumulated by Polyot specialists would enable them to create the most advanced control and radio communications system for the promising Su-57 fifth-generation fighter jet and other advanced aircraft. 
Russia to create new airborne command post aboard Mi-38 helicopter 
Russia will use a Mil Mi-38 helicopter for a new airborne command post, the deputy defense minister said. 
The Polyot Research and Production Enterprise is known as the supplier of reliable airborne systems of providing communications at various levels. We are planning to start work with Polyot this year on creating an airborne command post based on the Mi-38 helicopter, the defense official said. 
Polyot delivers various communications systems to Russia’s Defense Ministry ahead of schedule, and also carries out heavy modernization of the onboard equipment of Il-22M11 airborne command posts and Tu-142MR communications relay aircraft, Krivoruchko said. 
Seamless Soldering - LONGi Announced New Proprietary Module Encapsulation Technology 
XI'AN, China, May 31, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- LONGi Solar announced today that the company has developed the technology of Seamless Soldering, which completely eliminates the gap between cells and increases the efficiency of PV modules. The technology is planned for mass production in 2H-2019. According to a TÜV SÜD test on May 30, Seamless Soldering technology, when combined with innovative module design, has the potential to push LONGi Solar's high efficiency PERC module power record to 500Wp. 
Seamless Soldering technology uses a solder ribbon to achieve tiled interconnection of the cell, completely eliminating the typical 2mm wide cell gap, thus increasing efficiency while reducing the BOM cost of the module. This technology is perfectly compatible with existing module encapsulation processes and equipment. It has high mass production maturity and stability, and capacity is easily scalable. In addition, Seamless Soldering has good technical compatibility that integrates with M6 monocrystalline silicon wafer, thin silicon wafer, soldering wire and reflective ribbon. 
PV module technology continuous pursuits in the evolution of high efficiency and high power are the key factors in reducing the LCOE. LONGi has carried out intellectual property research on Seamless Soldering technology and has applied for a number of related patents. The launch of this technology marks a new step in the innovations of LONGi's modules. LONGi will continue to invest in technology to promote a wider range of PV applications of PV in the world. 
Trump calls on Russia, Iran to stop 'bombing' Syrian province of Idlib 
WASHINGTON, June 3. /TASS/. US President Donald Trump called on Russia, the Syrian authorities, and Iran to stop bombing the territory of the Syrian province of Idlib, he wrote on Twitter. 
Hearing word that Russia, Syria and, to a lesser extent, Iran, are bombing the hell out of Idlib Province in Syria, and indiscriminately killing many innocent civilians. The World is watching this butchery. What is the purpose, what will it get you? STOP! 
Since the evening of May 21, militants of the Jabhat al-Nusra (Hayat Tahrir al-Sham terrorist grouping outlawed in Russia) have been launching massive attacks in the southern portion of the Idlib de-escalation zone on the government troops’ positions, using the armor, multiple launch rocket systems and suicide bombers’ vehicles. 
In an interview with journalists on the South Lawn of the White House before flying to the UK, Trump said that he does not like what is happening in Syria with Idlib, as many people, civilians are killed indiscriminately. 
In accordance with a decision made by Russia, Iran and Turkey - the guarantors of the Syrian ceasefire - four de-escalation zones were set up in Syria in May 2017. They include the Idlib Province, some parts of its neighboring areas in the Latakia, Hama and Aleppo provinces, Eastern Ghouta, as well as some areas in the Daraa and al-Quneitra Provinces in southern Syria. Damascus took control of three zones in 2014, but the fourth zone, covering the Idlib province and certain parts of the Latakia, Hama and Aleppo provinces, is still controlled by Jabhat al-Nusra. 
On May 18, Syrian government forces unilaterally ceased fire in the area but militants continue to attack their positions. 
Russia's tennis star Sharapova may take part in Mallorca Open 
MOSCOW, June 4. /TASS/. Russian tennis player Maria Sharapova informed that she might take part in the tournament of the Women’s Tennis Association in the Spanish town of Santa Ponsa on the island of Mallorca, the 32-year-old athlete stated on Instagram. 
Earlier, Sharapova withdrew from the French Open due to injury. 
Maybe the [Mallorca] Open if I’m ready, she wrote on Instagram. 
The Mallorca Open will take place in Santa Ponsa on June 17-23. 
Sharapova is Russia’s most decorated tennis player having won a total of five Grand Slam tournaments, namely the Australian Open in 2008, the French Open in 2012 and 2014, Wimbledon in 2004 and the US Open in 2006. She also clinched the silver in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London and was the 2008 Federations Cup champion. 
After the 15-month long suspension, imposed in 2016 for violating anti-doping regulations, Sharapova made her comeback to tennis in April 2017. 
In 2018, Sharapova participated in 11 tennis tournaments, including four Grand Slam competitions. Her best results last season were the semifinals of the tournaments in China’s Shenzhen and Italy’s Rome. 
Playing at the Grand Slam tournaments last year Sharapova reached the third round of the Australian Open, the quarterfinals of the Roland-Garros in France, was knocked out in the opening round at the Wimbledon and reached the fourth round stage of the US Open. 
At the opening tournament of the Grand Slam series this year, the 2019 Australian Open, Sharapova managed to reach the 4th round, where she suffered a defeat of 6-4; 1-6; 4-6 to Australia’s Ashleigh Barty. 
Putin to talk about global economic problems at SPIEF — Kremlin 
Russian President Vladimir Putin will deliver a speech at the plenary session of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum on June 7 
MOSCOW, June 4. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin will highlight problems of the global economy and politics and will cover in detail the National Projects implemented in Russia at the plenary session of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF) on June 7, presidential aide Yuri Ushakov told reporters on Tuesday. 
Putin [in the speech at the SPIEF plenary session] will share the vision of the current situation in the global economy and politics and will give an appraisal of problems experienced at present by the world economy, international trade and financial system. He will articulate certain ideas on optimization of the global management system and its alignment with principles of equality, mutual respect and consideration of each other's intersts Ushakov said. 
The Russian president will give the most detailed coverage of large-scale objectives and tasks Russia is facing, the official said. Putin will talk about National Projects and strategies aimed at industrial and technological development of the country and individual regions, at increasing digitalization levels of the economy, Ushakov said. It will be a broad and interesting speech, he added. 
Russian-Chinese relations stand the test of time, says Xi Jinping 
The Chinese leader recalled that the diplomatic relations between the two countries began 70 years ago 
Chinese President Xi Jinping and Russian President Vladimir Putin 
MOSCOW, June 5. /TASS/. The relations between China and Russia have stood the test of time in the context of the changing situation in the world, Chinese President Xi Jinping stated before the talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
Chinese-Russian relations have stood the test of the changing situation in the world and in our countries. Step by step, we have managed to bring our relations to a new level, the highest in history, the Chinese leader stressed, reminding that the diplomatic relations between the two countries began 70 years ago. 
In the context of radical change, unprecedented in the last hundred years, the people of our countries and the international community place great expectations on us, Xi Jinping stated. He noted that there is no limit to the development of relations between Moscow and Beijing. We are ready to continue expanding the positive effect of our high-level relations together, side by side, the Chinese leader assured. 
Xi Jinping expressed confidence in the success of his state visit to Russia. Thank you for the warm welcome, he told Putin. 
Murmansk, Rosatom agree to work on Smart City project 
According to the acting governor, the Smart City concept means professional and effective management of the city resources and infrastructures 
MURMANSK, June 6. /TASS/. Rusatom Infrastructure Solutions (a part of state-run Rosatom) and the Murmansk Region during the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum signed an agreement to develop the Smart City project, the Murmansk Region’s governmental press service said on Thursday. 
The Murmansk Region’s Acting Governor Andrei Chibis and Rusatom Infrastructure Solutions’ Director General Kseniya Sukhotina have signed an agreement on joint initiatives to implement digital solutions under the Smart City project, the press service said. 
Under the agreement, Rosatom’s Effective Smart city technologies will be used to analyze the region’s demand in digital solutions in property management. The region may also get an information platform, which will be used for the infrastructures’ intellectual management. 
Other directions under the agreement are digital services for cooperation with the local community, development of intelligent transport infrastructures, etc. 
According to the acting governor, the Smart City concept means professional and effective management of the city resources and infrastructures. Under the signed agreement, we shall implement widely the Smart City approaches, using Rosatom’s experience and technologies, the press service quoted the official as saying. 
Rusatom Infrastructure Solutions is an integrator of Rosatom’s ideas; it designs and implements digital technologies, products, and platform solutions for the Smart City, Smart District and other projects to upgrade regional and municipal management. 
About the forum 
The 2019 St. Petersburg International Economic Forum is being held on June 6-8. The event’s motto this year is Creating a Sustainable Development Agenda. The forum’s organizer is the Roscongress Foundation. TASS is a media partner, the official photo hosting agency and the operator of SRIEF’s presentation zones with support from multinational firm EY, and the Foreign Investment Advisory Council in Russia. 
Fearing US’ sanctions, European partners opt not to withdraw from NordStream-2 — diplomat 
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Pankin said the advantages of Russian pipeline gas are not reduced to its competitive edge in comparison with liquefied gas 
ST. PETERSBURG, June 6. /TASS/. European partners participating in the Nord Stream-2 gas pipeline project are afraid of the United States’ sanctions but are not withdrawing from the project, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Alexander Pankin told TASS on Thursday. 
Naturally, the European partners investing in this major economic, I would like to stress, purely economic, not political, project don’t feel comfortable now. They are nervous. They see pressure, they see threats aiming at their interests, he said. They are deeply thinking and they are afraid. Especially it concerns global diversified businesses which have a niche on various regional markets, along with Europe’s, and which depend on the US currency system. Nevertheless, none of the European partners has totally withdrawn. 
We would like our European partners to continue to hold on because the Nord Stream construction is in full swing. Everything is all right in all respects, both legal and financial, and in what concerns the laying of pipes and so on, Pankin noted. It is very important that European business and all of us who speak on this topic stress that if we speak about diversification of routes and supplies why should we refuse from a possibility of yet another reliable transit channel as this channel is reliable in all respects and it is cheap since once put into operation Nord Stream will lower wholesale gas prices for Europeans by 13% 
According to the Russian senior diplomat, advantages of Russian pipeline gas are not reduced to its competitive edge in comparison with liquefied gas. The construction of a new pipeline will create more than 30,000 jobs in European Union countries only and it is a positive thing in the current economic situation, Pankin argued. More to it, Nord Stream will not replace Ukrainian transit completely - it doesn’t have capacity enough for that. But it is obvious that it will ensure reliability, environmental safety and economic efficiency for our European partners. 
He called not to politicize the Nord Stream-2 project considering it as Russia’s tool to increase its influence in Europe. It is nonsense that Europe will become more dependent on Russia, Pankin stressed. People tend to overlook that Western Europe depends on Russian gas by 30% while Russian gas supplies to Europe stand at 70% This is who depends. And this is an interdependence and once it is interdependence we should demonstrate a calm, well-balanced approach, reckoning with, as diplomats would say, the balance of the parties’ interests.. 
Tourist route Sovereign's Road to run along highway from Moscow to St. Petersburg 
The project supported by Rosturizm will bring together into one tourist route several attractions along the M10 and M11 highways (Moscow — St. Petersburg) 
ST. PETERSBURG, June 6. /TASS/. The governments of the Moscow, St. Petersburg, Novgorod, Tver regions and Russia's Federal Agency for Tourism (Rosturizm) signed an agreement on developing the inter-regional tourism project Sovereign's Road. The document was signed at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF). 
The route 'Sovereign's Road' will interest both domestic and foreign tourists. We hope that it will be similar to the 'Golden Ring' tourist route created in the Soviet times. We plan for tourist flows on the 'Sovereign's Road' in the Tver region to reach at least 1 million people by 2025, Tver region's Governor Igor Rudenya told reporters. 
The project supported by Rosturizm will bring together into one tourist route several attractions along the M10 and M11 highways (Moscow — St. Petersburg). Highways run through the Moscow, Tver, Novgorod and St. Petersburg regions. The aim of the project is to create a common cultural and educational space and combine tourist resources of the several regions. 
The agreement was signed by Moscow region's Governor Andrey Vorobyev, Tver region's Governor Igor Rudenya, St. Petersburg region's Governor Alexander Drozdenko, Novgorod region's Governor Andrey Nikitin and Rosturizm head Zarina Doguzova. 
The 2019 St. Petersburg International Economic Forum is being held on June 6-8. The forum’s motto this year is Creating a Sustainable Development Agenda. The organizer for SPIEF-2019 is the Roscongress Foundation. TASS is a media partner, the official photo hosting agency and the operator of SPIEF’s presentation zones with support from multinational firm EY, and the Foreign Investment Advisory Council in Russia. 
Russia, Germany to cooperate on labor efficiency 
The sides noted that the development of labor efficiency is an important element for economic attractiveness and public wealth 
ST. PETERSBURG, June 7. /TASS/. Russia and Germany have signed a declaration on bilateral initiative ‘Partnership for efficiency’, TASS correspondent reports from the signing ceremony. 
The document was inked by Russia’s Economic Development Minister Maksim Oreshkin and Germany’s Minister for Economic Affairs and Energy Peter Altmaier at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum on Friday. 
The sides noted that the development of labor efficiency is an important element for economic attractiveness and public wealth. The document stipulates that the two partners will be developing bilateral economic cooperation and create favorable environment for efficient economic activities, as well as facilitate the development of various forms of cooperation between economic entities of the sides’ states within the strategic economic initiative ‘Partnership for efficiency’. 
Russia and Germany plan cooperation in the field of labor efficiency through exchange of experience and best practices, as well as information regarding the legal and regulatory framework in the area. The two countries will also facilitate employee training and education, successful initiatives of enterprises and joint organization of study visits of Russian experts to Germany. 
The declaration also stipulates that the sides will cooperate in the area of small and mid-sized businesses. They plan to support within the initiative the development and expansion of mutually beneficial cooperation in the area of economic policy to assist small and mid-sized businesses, in the field of employee training and education, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources, digitalization, the document said. 
TASS invites CIS news agencies to organize photo exhibition on WWII victory anniversary 
The CEOs of CIS news agencies also approved an initiative of Turkmenistan’s TDH State News Agency to join the CIS Information Council’s standing project for the establishment of a common newsfeed 
TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov at the 26th session of the CIS Council of Heads of State-run News Agencies 
ST. PETERSBURG, June 7. /TASS/. TASS has invited news agencies of the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) to organize a joint photo exhibition dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the victory in WWII that will be marked in 2020. 
I suggest we pool efforts to organize a photo exhibition dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the victory, TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov, who is chairman of the CIS Information Council, said on Friday at the 26th session of the CIS Council of Heads of State-run News Agencies (CIS Information Council) that was held on the sidelines of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. 
Participants in the meeting agreed that it would be expedient to exchange materials on patriotic actions and education of the youth. In this context, journalists of news agencies bear special responsibility, Mikhailov said, adding that we have been seeing in the recent years numerous attempts to falsity the WWII history, to whitewash, rehabilitate and even glorify the Nazi. 
The CEOs of CIS news agencies also exchange experience and plans of covering such large-scale international events as the 2nd European Games to be held in Belarus in June, organizing press tours and seminars for journalists. Special attention was focused on information support to the Delphian Games. 
Apart from that, they approved an initiative of Turkmenistan’s TDH State News Agency to join the CIS Information Council’s standing project for the establishment of a common newsfeed. 
Set up in 1995, the Council includes CEOs of state-run news agencies from Azerbaijan, Armenia, Belarus, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Russia, and Tajikistan. 
Five grams of cocaine found in detained journalist’s Moscow apartment — police 
According to the spokesman, Golunov was detained as a result of investigative procedures targeting a group of suspected drug dealers 
The Main Directorate of Internal Affairs of the city of Moscow 
MOSCOW, June 8. /TASS/. Moscow police found and seized five grams of cocaine in the apartment of Meduza journalist Ivan Golunov, who was detained in Moscow on Friday, a Moscow police spokesperson told TASS. 
While searching the detainee’s place of residence - a rented apartment on Veshnyakovskaya St. - police, in the presence of attesting witnesses, have discovered three bags and one package containing some powder-like substance, as well as an electronic weighing scale. Further investigation revealed that cocaine, weighting over five grams, was among the items seized, the source said. 
According to the spokesman, Golunov was detained as a result of investigative procedures targeting a group of suspected drug dealers. 
Besides, Moscow police rejected reports that the journalist was beaten during detention. 
Members of the Public Monitoring Commission, who were allowed to meet with him, attested that there were no signs of beating on the detainee’s body. When the detainee asked to inform his friends and relatives about the detention, an investigator made a phone call to the number that the man provided. Also, a lawyer had joined the criminal proceedings, the spokesperson said. 
The source also denied reports that police officers deliberately prevented the suspect from submitting hand swabs and nail clips for a forensic test to detect signs of drugs. 
In fact, the detainee at first agreed to provide his biological fluids for testing, but, at the same time, refused in the presence of attesting witnesses to give his nail clips. Later, after public monitors arrived, he was once again told to provide hand swabs and nail clips, and he agreed, the official said. 
Moscow police also refuted media reports of alleged falsifications in Golunov’s case. 
We express our disagreement with certain media’s claims of deliberate falsifications committed in the course of the pretrial investigation, the Moscow City Police said in a statement. 
Golunov, 36, an investigative correspondent from the Riga-based Meduza online newspaper was detained in downtown Moscow on June 6. According to police, he was carrying several packages containing 4 grams of mephedrone, a synthetic stimulant drug. Three packages, a parcel containing a powdery substance and scales were found in his house. A criminal case was opened against Golunov. 
The pretrial investigation into the journalist’s case continues. Moscow police chief Oleg Baranov has assumed personal control over it. 
Three Russian warships to keep NATO Baltops-2019 exercise under observation 
MOSCOW, June 8. /TASS/. The Baltic Fleet’s warships will keep track of NATO’s Baltops-2019 maneuvers to begin in the Baltic Sea waters on June 9, a law enforcement source in Russia’s westernmost Baltic exclave of Kaliningrad told TASS on Saturday. 
The Stoikiy and the Boikiy corvettes, as well as the Liven small missile ship, will keep the NATO maneuvers under observation. Besides, reconnaissance assets will also be deployed, the source said. 
TASS has been unable to officially confirm the information at the time of the publication. 
The Baltops-2019 exercise will be held on June 9-21. It will involve up to 40 surface ships and submarines and 40 aircraft from 18 countries. For the first time, the US Second Fleet, re-established in 2018, will take part in the maneuvers. Staff members will run Baltops-2019 from the USS Mount Whitney command ship, which arrived to the Baltic Sea on May 30. 
Russian Baltic Fleet warships took part in those annual exercises in late 1990s and early 2000s. 
Russian-Chinese partnership not directed against third countries - Kremlin 
A distinctive feature of Russian-Chinese partnership is that this partnership is not directed against any third countries or a group of countries, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said 
YUZHNO-SAKHALISNK, June 9. /TASS/. Russian-Chinese partnership ties are not coordinated against any third countries or a group of states, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said in an interview with Moscow. Kremlin. Putin program on Rossiya-1 TV channel. 
A distinctive feature of Russian-Chinese partnership is that this partnership is not directed against any third countries or a group of countries. And therefore, it’s absolutely wrong to raise the question that we are coordinating on the issue of the US or against the US, Peskov said. 
It’s wrong to say that. First, because China and Russia have their own issues with the US. Actually, China is having trade wars with Washington, while we have our own problems with the Americans. They mainly concern issues of strategic security, disarmament issues, and the reluctance of our American vis-a-vis to hold any substantive dialogue on this. That’s why each of us has its own problems, he noted. 
Russian Olympic Committee chief regrets IAAF’s decision to extend athletic federation ban 
On Sunday, head of the IAAF’s Russia task force Rune Andersen presented a report during the IAAF’s council meeting in Monaco 
MOSCOW, June 10. /TASS/. The Sunday’s decision made by the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) not to reinstate the All-Russia Athletic Federation (RusAF) is lamentable, President of the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) Stanislav Pozdnyakov told TASS on Monday. 
On Sunday, head of the IAAF’s Russia task force Rune Andersen presented a report during the IAAF’s council meeting in Monaco. The council members decided to extend the suspension. 
Yesterday’s decision of the IAAF is regrettable for the fact that even recognizing that the roadmap criteria were fulfilled by the Russian side, the IAAF’s position remains unchanged, Pozdnyakov said. 
Undeniably, there are still many issues in the Russian athletics, there are cases of anti-doping rules violations, he continued. But, firstly, they are isolated incidents and definitely cannot be characterized as systematic. Secondly, they are becoming rarer, while measures against those involved in these cases are becoming stricter. Achieving everything at once is impossible, but we are addressing the issues step by step, according to the plan. 
'This is a real tragedy' 
Pozdnyakov notes that the reference to the re-testing of the Moscow anti-doping lab’s samples in the substantive part of the IAAF’s decision is puzzling. 
It is known that WADA [World Anti-Doping Agency] transfers data on the results to the federations concerned, which later make their judgements on each specific case. But we are talking about the violations of the past years, which resulted in the RusAF suspension, and the personal responsibility of those, who can be found guilty. However, how does it implicate the rights of [Maria] Lasitskine, [Sergei] Shubenkov, [Anzhelika] Sidorova or any other clean athletes to compete as part of the national team under the Russian flag? How long will they have to pay for the wrongdoings of others? We are talking about the fates of people, some [athletes] retired because they did not see any prospects, this is a real sports tragedy, the President of the ROC said. 
I hope that colleagues in the IAAF understand this, and the intention to speed up the reinstatement of the RusAF’s membership, which they voiced, will be implemented in the near future, he concluded. 
On the day prior to the council’s meeting, RusAF President Dmitry Shlyakhtin met with Andersen to discuss the points of the roadmap to reinstate the membership in detail. Since the issue of the RusAF’s membership was discussed last, it was reported that two points of the roadmap were left unfulfilled: WADA receiving the requested doping samples from the Moscow laboratory and payment of $3.2 million debt to IAAF. In late April, WADA announced that the requested samples had been received, while on June 1 Shlyakhtin told TASS that the RusAF had paid off its debt to the IAAF, completing the last demand to have its rights reinstated. 
The IAAF statement, published on June 10, points out that the RusAF has successfully fulfilled all the criteria, but the decision on reinstatement will only be taken after the Moscow anti-doping lab samples are re-tested, the investigations into the possible work of suspended coaches and doctor with Russian athletes, as well as the possible involvement of the RusAF officials in the cover-up of an athlete’s doping violation are completed. According to Andersen, it is not clear yet how long the re-testing of the Moscow lab samples will take. 
Russian president’s envoy says SSJ-100 jet has no serious design flaws 
Sergei Ivanov stressed that he was expressing only his personal opinion while a special government commission would provide official findings on the causes of the accident 
MOSCOW, June 10. /TASS/. /TASS/. Russia’s Sukhoi Superjet 100 passenger jet has no serious design flaws, although some complexities may arise due to the little experience of the new plane’s production and operation, Special Russian Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection. Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov told TASS on Monday. 
The Russian president’s special envoy thus commented on the recent emergency landing of an SSJ-100 airliner at Moscow’s Shemertyevo airport when the plane burst into flames. 
The envoy, who earlier held the post of the first vice-premier in the Russian government overseeing the industry and was well familiar with the process of the airliner’s creation, stressed that he was expressing only his personal opinion while a special government commission would provide official findings on the causes of the accident that resulted in the deaths of people. 
As the president’s special envoy noted, other aircraft, for example, Boeing airliners, are also periodically confronted with problems. 
Nothing perfect exists. I can presume that the Superjet is still an immature plane but it is hardly possible to talk about any serious design defects in it, the envoy said, disagreeing with the correspondent’s presumption that the airliner might have flaws in its design. 
The reports about emergency landings do not always suggest that a plane is unreliable, the special envoy stressed. 
For example, an emergency light switches on to indicate that your air conditioner operates poorly. If a pilot makes a decision by virtue of fight instructions to return and land the plane upon the activation of this sensor that does not affect flight safety, these are corporate procedures and I can’t dispute them. Each time, it is necessary to proceed from whether faults or some failures are serious, the envoy said. 
Russia’s new plane frequently experiences enhanced attention compared to the planes of other producers, Ivanov said. 
I read already ten times how … planes had to return and make a landing at the airport of their departure. Media outlets almost never indicated the aircraft brand, although this was either a Boeing or an Airbus… However, when it came to a Superjet, there was hype all over the planet. This is a competitive struggle, simply a competitive struggle, the special presidential envoy said. 
As for emergency situations, pilots’ training is of paramount importance and it should become more intensive precisely for these instances, the special Russian presidential envoy said. 
Serious situations happen when it is, indeed, necessary to make an emergency landing and precisely in this case pilots should have the skills to land the plane in the manual mode. Pilots should be trained correspondingly for this, Ivanov said. 
All modern planes, including Superjets, have all their systems controlled by a computer. And pilots grow accustomed to the situation that all operations are run by a computer, the special envoy said. 
To my mind, I am sure that pilots’ training in landings in the manual mode should be enhanced, Ivanov said. 
Russia wishes Kazakhstan's president-elect success on inauguration day — ambassador 
Foreign countries will be represented by ambassadors at the inauguration ceremony in Kazakhstan 
NUR-SULTAN, June 12. /TASS/. Russia wishes Kazakhstan's President-elect Kassym-Jomart Tokayev success on his inauguration day, Russian Ambssador to Kazakhstan Alexey Borodavkin told TASS on Wednesday. 
A truly historical event happened in Kazakhstan. A president has been elected, Borodavkin said. The presidential elections marked a new stage of Kazakhstan's development, he added. I think that Kazakhstani people made the right choice, he noted. 
Kassym-Jomart Tokayev was elected as president, and I want to wish the president of friendly ally Kazakhstan success in his activities for the benefit of Kazakhstan's people and for the benefit of developing relations of friendship, alliance and integration with Russia, the ambassador said. 
Foreign countries will be represented by ambassadors at the inauguration ceremony in Kazakhstan. 
Tokayev won 70.96% of votes at the June 9 presidential election. 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization plans to hold its 2020 summit in Russia’s Chelyabinsk 
The SCO member countries are Russia, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan 
BEIJING, June 13. /TASS/. The next year’s summit of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) will take place in Russia in 2020, and the Urals city of Chelyabinsk is seen as a likely venue, the organization’s Deputy Secretary General Nurlan Akkoshkarov said on Wednesday. 
It is very symbolic that today you gathered in our hall ahead of the SCO summit to take place in Bishkek on June 13-14. After that, the Russian side will assume the rotating presidency and we expect the 2020 summit to take place in Chelyabinsk, the official told the third international youth conference, headlined The SCO Model, which gathered in the Chinese capital Beijing. 
And, no matter where the next summit takes place, we are convinced that young people will support us, he added. 
The SCO member countries are Russia, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, China, Pakistan, Tajikistan, and Uzbekistan. Afghanistan, Belarus, Iran and Mongolia take on the role of observer states. Six countries serve as SCO dialogue partners - Azerbaijan, Armenia, Cambodia, Nepal, Turkey and Sri Lanka. 
Ecuador sure UK won’t extradite WikiLeaks founder to state where he may face death penalty 
On May 1, Assange was sentenced to 50 weeks in jail for breaching his British bail conditions 
TASS, June 14. /TASS/. The Ecuadoran authorities have expressed certainty that WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange will not be extradited to a country, where tortures and death penalty are practiced, the Ecuadoran Foreign Ministry said in a statement issued on Thursday. 
The Ministry of Foreign Affairs id fully certain that the guarantees provided by the United Kingdom to Ecuador that Assange will not be extradited to a country, where he can face death penalties or be subjected to torture will be fulfilled, the communique published on the Ministry’s official website reads. 
The statement was released ahead of the first extended hearing of the Assange extradition to the United States case in London’s Belmarsh Magistrates' Court scheduled for Friday. 
Assange founded the WikiLeaks portal in 2006 to publish classified information about the activities of a number of governments, including that of the United States. After harassment and rape charges had been brought against him in Sweden in 2012 by two women, Assange sought refuge in London's Ecuadorian Embassy to escape extradition to the US, where he uninterruptedly spent almost seven years. In April, the authorities of Ecuador withdrew his asylum, London’s Metropolitan Police immediately arrested him for failing to appear in court under the 2012 warrant, as well as in accordance with the extradition request sent by Washington to the British authorities in 2018. 
On May 1, Assange was sentenced to 50 weeks in jail for breaching his British bail conditions. 
In case the WikiLeaks founder is extradited to the United States, he might be sentenced to 175 years in prison for hacking activities, according to the US Department of Justice charges. The journalists’ defense earlier expressed concerns that Assange might face death penalty in the US. 
A Brand New Day To Be Released On June 14 
A Brand New Day from BTS WORLD's game soundtrack includes j-hope and V of BTS 
LOS ANGELES, June 14, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Netmarble has announced A Brand New Day, the second song available from the BTS WORLD original soundtrack, will be released on June 14 at 2 am PDT/6 pm KST. 
A Brand New Day is an electronic hip-hop song by j-hope and V, which features Zara Larsson, a next generation pop star from Sweden. The song was produced by British hip-hop electronic music producer and beat maker Mura Masa. 
Mura Masa's unique beat and sound of East Asian musical instrumentation offer a bold and harmonious feeling in the song. The Korean traditional musical instrument daegeum leads the song, highlighting the most Korean yet trendy sound, and the combination of Eastern and Western vocals create perfect harmony. 
Dream Glow, released on June 7, and new song A Brand New Day are original songs created for BTS WORLD as fresh, new music to coincide with the game's story of a parallel universe. BTS WORLD's full, original soundtrack, including the third to be revealed on June 21, will be released on June 28. 
With the new song, Netmarble opened BTS WORLD's Another Story, in which each member of BTS appears as the main character, through its official website. Two stories of RM and Jin were opened on June 10 and 12, and more stories of other members will come sequentially. 
Netmarble is also revealing a preview of text messaging with BTS members, which is one of the main interactive content components of the game, through the BTS WORLD website. The reactions of BTS members vary by responses selected by the players, and their individual characteristics can be seen through how they react. 
The game will be released worldwide (excluding some countries) for iOS and Android devices. For more information on BTS WORLD, please visit https://btsw.netmarble.com. The latest updates are also available by following BTS WORLD on Twitter and Instagram. 
About Netmarble Corporation 
Netmarble Corporation strives to entertain audiences of all ages around the world by providing great mobile gaming experiences. Established in Korea in 2000, Netmarble is one of the fastest-growing mobile game companies and consistently ranks as a top mobile developer and publisher worldwide. With more than 6,000 employees, Netmarble has been producing and servicing some of the most successful mobile games including Lineage 2: Revolution, Blade & Soul Revolution, MARVEL Future Fight, Everybody's Marble, and Seven Knights. As a parent company to Kabam, a top mobile game developer in massively multiplayer free-to-play games, and the largest shareholder to Jam City, a leading casual social game developer, Netmarble has a strategic partnership with CJ ENM Corporation, Asia's largest entertainment company, Tencent Holdings, Asia's largest internet company, and NCsoft, a prominent MMORPG company. More information can be found at http://company.netmarble.com 
About Big Hit Entertainment 
Founded in February 2005 in South Korea by CEO and Producer Bang Si-Hyuk, Big Hit Entertainment's core business focuses on music production, artist management and publishing. Big Hit's business ventures incorporate and develop a range of content produced from top-notch artists' IP, including global boy band BTS and its newest addition TOMORROW X TOGETHER. With its mission of 'Music & Artist for Healing', Big Hit strives to impart a positive influence through content while providing comfort and inspiration to music fans worldwide. 
About Takeone Company 
Takeone Company Corp. is an innovative content company that utilizes pop-culture within a gaming environment. Established in 2016, Takeone is leading the new genre of mobile games called 'Cinematic Games' that combines interactive game elements within a story concept based on both pop-culture and original IP's. The games include full motion videos and various visual contents that push the boundaries of next-generation storytelling. Years of experience and knowledge in both storytelling and game development have led to the creation of cinematic games such as Take Urban, BTS WORLD. Takeone is currently developing a series of future cinematic games for their next up and coming titles. For more information, please refer to www.takeonecompany.com. 
Ukrainian captain, found guilty of illegal fishing, returns to home country 
I had no idea of what the court verdict would be. It came as a total surprise for me, Viktor Novitsky said 
ARMYANSK /Crimea/, June 14. /TASS/. Captain of the Ukrainian vessel YaMK-0041 Viktor Novitsky, convicted in Russia’s Sevastopol for illegal fishing and released in the courtroom on Friday, returned to his home country hours after the verdict, a TASS correspondent reported from a Russian-Ukrainian border crossing. 
Of course, I’m glad. I had no idea of what the court verdict would be. It came as a total surprise for me, Novitsky told TASS before crossing the border. 
He thanked Russian human rights commissioners, who assisted his release. 
The Russian side detained the Ukrainian vessel YaMK-0041 on May 4, 2018, near the western Crimean coast for illegal fishing. The vessel was arrested, and a criminal case was launched against its captain for illegal fishing in Russia’s exclusive economic zone under Section 256 of the Russian Criminal Code, which stipulates up to two years of imprisonment. 
On Friday, Sevastopol’s Balaklava District Court found Novitsky guilty of illegal fishing off Crimean shore, fining him 500,000 rubles ($7,700). Considering the half year that he spent in a pre-trial detention facility, the court abolished the fine. 
Russia expects new Moldovan government to improve political situation, envoy says 
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak pointed out that Russia, the United States and the European Union had managed to take a common stance aimed at supporting democratic processes in Moldova 
MOSCOW, June 15. /TASS/. Moscow expects that the new Moldovan government will improve the political situation in the country, Russian Presidential Envoy for Trade and Economic Ties with Moldova, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak told reporters on Saturday. 
We are certainly satisfied that reason has prevailed over the reckless approach of the former regime, he said. I hope that the newly formed parliamentary coalition and Moldova’s new government will have enough political wisdom and prudence to continue the dismantling of the criminal regime and improve the political situation in the country, Kozak added. 
It will make it possible to resolve political differences through transparent and reliable political institutions based on the true will of the people, the Russian envoy noted. 
Kozak pointed out that Russia, the United States and the European Union had managed to take a common stance aimed at supporting democratic processes in Moldova. 
Political crisis in Moldova 
Moldova’s parliament was unable to create a ruling coalition and form a government following the February elections. Only on June 8, the Party of Socialists supporting President Igor Dodon managed to reach an agreement with the pro-EU ACUM bloc to oppose the Democratic Party led by oligarch Vladimir Plahotniuc, which controlled the former parliament and cabinet. The leader of the Party of Socialists Zinaida Greceanii was elected the parliament’s speaker, and the government was formed with Maia Sandu, the leader of the Party of Action and Solidarity, a part of the ACUM bloc, as the prime minister. 
The Democratic Party refused to recognize the new government and turned to the Constitutional Court, which ruled that the parliament’s resolutions were invalid as the parliament had failed to form a government within 90 days (starting on March 9, when the lawmakers received their mandates). 
After that, the Constitutional Court authorized acting Prime Minister and member of the Democratic Party Pavel Filip to sign a decree on the parliament’s dissolution instead of the president. Dodon described the move as an attempt to usurp power. 
On Friday, the Democratic Party announced the resignation of Pavel Filip’s cabinet. According to a party source, the decision was made after US Ambassador to Chisinau Derek Hogan’s visit to the party office. 
Dodon says sure Moldova will have good relations with Russia under new government 
Earlier, he noted that Moldova’s relations with Russia would largely depend on who heads his country’s government 
YUZHNO-SAKHALINSK, June 16. /TASS/. Moldova’s President Igor Dodon said on Sunday he is sure his country’s new government will have good relations with Russia. 
In the past 2.5-3 years, Moldova’s government has practically blocked all contacts with Russia and we have had relations only at the level of presidents. I am sure we will have very good relations with Russia under the new government, he said in an interview with the Vesti Nedeli with Dmitry Kiselev weekly news roundup on the Rossiya-1 television channel. 
Earlier, Dodon noted that Moldova’s relations with Russia would largely depend on who heads his country’s government. 
The political crisis in Moldova is about to be settled after the Democratic Party that had controlled the country’s government said on June 14 it was going into opposition. Its supporters unblocked entrances to the governmental buildings. The new government of Maia Sandu gathered for its first meeting on Saturday. 
Political crisis in Moldova 
Moldova’s parliament has been trying to establish the ruling coalition and form the government since the February elections. Only on June 8, the Party of Socialists supporting Moldovan President Igor Dodon finally managed to reach agreement with the pro-EU bloc Acum (Now) to oppose the Democratic Party led by oligarch Vladimir Plahotniuc, which controlled the former parliament and the cabinet. The leader of the Party of Socialists Zinaida Greceanii was elected the parliament’s speaker, and the government was formed with Maia Sandu, the leader of the Party of Action and Solidarity, a part of the Acum bloc, as the prime minister. 
The Democratic Party refused to recognize the new government and filed a request with the Constitutional Court, which ruled that the parliament’s resolutions were illegitimate as the parliament had failed to form the government within a period of 90 days in conformity with law (from March 9 when the lawmakers received their mandates). 
After that, the Constitutional Court authorized acting Prime Minister and member of the Democratic Party Pavel Filip to sign a decree on the parliament’s dissolution instead of the president. President Dodon described this step as an attempt to usurp power. 
Russia, the European Union, the United States and other countries and international organizations have expressed concern over the political crisis in Moldova and declared their readiness to cooperate with that country’s parliament and new cabinet. After that, the cabinet of the former Prime Minister Pavel Filip announced its resignation. 
Russia’s inflation slows to 5.1% in annual terms in May, Central Bank reports 
The slowdown was due to a decline of growth rate of non-food products prices, the regulator explained 
MOSCOW, June 17. /TASS/. Inflation in Russia in May 2019 slowed 0.1 percentage points (pp) compared with April and amounted to 5.1% in annual terms, according to the Russian Central Bank. 
In May 2019, annual inflation once again decreased by 0.1 percentage points and amounted to 5.1%, the regulator said. 
The slowdown was due to a decline in the growth rate of non-food product prices, primarily due to the high base effect on the motor fuel market, the regulator explained. 
At the same time, the monthly growth of consumer prices net of seasonal factors in May accelerated by 0.1 percentage points to 0.4%, due to an increase of the rate of rise in food prices. The growth rates of prices for services decreased, non-food products remained at the lowest level since August last year. 
According to the forecast of the Central Bank, the annual inflation in 2019 will be 4.2-4.7%. In the future, it will be near 4%. 
IS financial reserves reach $300 mln, warns Russian Security Council 
The terrorists continue their search for new sources of funding 
UFA, June 19. /TASS/. The financial reserves of the Islamic State terror group outlawed in Russia reach up to $300 mln, Russian Security Council Deputy Secretary Yuri Kokov said at the Tenth International Meeting of High-Level Representatives on Security Issues in the Russian city of Ufa. 
According to UN experts, the financial reserves of ISIL [the former name of the Islamic State group - TASS] reach up to $300 mln, he said. At the same time, terrorists continue their search for new sources of funding, Kokov added. 
The companies they control are engaged in stock market speculation, they invest in real estate and many legitimate sectors of economy, but they also participate in criminal businesses in various countries, the Russian security official pointed out. He said that organized transnational crime was one of the pillars of terrorist organizations. Terrorists become more and more involved in criminal activities, which requires common approaches and international cooperation, he went on to say. Revenues from arms and drug trafficking are particularly important for terrorists. Terrorist organizations seek to take control of drug trafficking routes from South and Southeast Asia, primarily from Afghanistan, he noted. 
According to Kokov, terrorists also make money from transporting illegal immigrants from Middle East countries, North Africa and Afghanistan. Facts show that the growing scale of illegal migration increases terrorist and extremist activities, fuel xenophobia and nationalist sentiment in countries that receive migrants, Kokov emphasized. Terrorists try to hide in migrant flows into developed countries, he added. 
Central Military District’s ecologists to gather 1,500 tonnes of waste in Arctic 
In 2018 the military district’s gathered more than 770 tonnes of waste 
YEKATERINBURG, June 19. /TASS/. The Central Military District’s ecology platoon will gather at the Alykel airport area (the Krasnoyarsk Region’s Norilsk) 1,500 tonnes of waste, which is almost double the amount they gathered a year earlier, Chief of the airport’s Commander Office Captain Ilya Maslov told TASS on Wednesday. 
The ecology platoon’s staff was 30 people last year, and this year it is 40, he said. Last year, we had two platoons, which worked in shifts, and this year we shall have three platoons. 
Thus, their task has grown, and this time they will gather 1,500 tonnes of scrap metal, he added. 
TASS wrote earlier that in 2018 the military district’s ecologists worked ahead of the plan and gathered more than 770 tonnes of waste. 
The platoons, equipped with graders, cranes and metal presses, have been relocated to the Arctic from the Volga Region. The military have begun working in the Arctic in June. 
DPR’s militia denies involvement in 2014 Boeing crash 
Earlier, the Joint Investigation Team named three Russian and one Ukrainian nationals suspected of being involved in the crash 
DONETSK, June 19. /TASS/. The forces of the Donetsk People’s Republic could not have been involved in the Boeing catastrophe in Donbass in the summer of 2014 because they did not possess any Buk missile systems, the DPR’s militia commented on the statements by the Joint Investigation Team (JIT) and the Dutch prosecution on Wednesday. 
In 2014, the DPR army did not have any Buk missile systems in service, such systems are not in service today as well. Therefore, the militia could not have been involved in the Boeing crash in Donbass, the Donetsk News Agency quotes the statement. The militia added that the DPR does not have specialists trained to run these systems either. 
On Wednesday, the JIT named three Russian and one Ukrainian nationals suspected of being involved in the Boeing jet crash in Ukraine in July 2014. The list of suspects includes Igor Girkin, known under the nickname of Strelkov, Sergey Dubinsky, Oleg Pulatov and Leonid Kharchenko. 
Vice-speaker of the State Duma (lower chamber) Pyotr Tolstoy expressed confidence that the JIT by making this statement about the guilty in this tragedy has completely discredited itself. He drew attention to the fact that it copies the Bellingcat report word by word and rests on the dubious publications in social networks. Not a single piece of evidence or a fact. There isn’t even the most evident one, the decoded data of the flight recorders, he pointed out. 
Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17, a Boeing-777 passenger plane travelling from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur, was shot down on July 17, 2014, over Ukraine’s eastern region of Donetsk. The crash killed all the 283 passengers, citizens of 10 countries, and 15 crewmembers. The Joint Investigation Team (JIT) looking into the crash is made up of representatives from the Netherlands, Australia, Belgium, Malaysia and Ukraine. On May 24, the experts published a provisional report, claiming that the missile system that was used to down Flight MH17 could have been transferred from Russia and be a part of the Russian 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile brigade near Kursk. 
Moscow rejects the JIT accusations. Particularly, the Russian Defense Ministry said that no Russian army missile system had ever crossed the Ukrainian border. Moreover, the defense ministry’s representatives reported that they had identified the missile that was launched to down the Boeing and established that it was transferred over to the Ukrainian troops back in 1986 and had never returned to Russia since. 
US ready to discuss minimizing consequences of Turkey’s cancellation of S-400 deal 
A senior US administration officialdeemed the S-400 system a Russian intelligence gathering platform that risks the safety of our aircraft and pilots 
WASHINGTON, June 19. /TASS/. The USA is ready to discuss the ways to minimize any consequences that may potentially ensue from Turkey’s exit from the S-400 deal with Russia, a senior US administration official informed TASS on Wednesday, commenting on Bloomberg’s report on Washington considering three packages of sanctions against Turkey in case it acquires the S-400 missile defense systems. 
Turkey’s planned acquisition of the Russian S-400 air defense system will have severe consequences on the U.S. relationship with Turkey. It is the strong desire of the United States to forego these steps, but it requires a willingness by Turkey to engage in a meaningful way about cancelling the S-400 purchase. The United States stands ready to discuss how to minimize any consequences that may ensue from such cancellation, she stated. 
The United States has gone to great lengths to warn Turkey that acquisition of the Russian S-400 system is unacceptable and could trigger the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act (CAATSA). In January 2019, the United States made our strongest possible offer on the PATRIOT air and missile defense system, a viable alternative to the S-400, the official noted. 
The US official deemed the S-400 system a Russian intelligence gathering platform that risks the safety of our [US] aircraft and pilots. Should Turkey procure the S-400, its continued participation in the F-35 [fighter jet] program will not be possible, she stressed. 
The senior administration official admitted that Washington’s measures in response to Turkey’s acquisition of S-400 would not be beneficial to the USA. The steps we will be forced to take should Turkey acquire the S-400 will be painful and expensive for the United States, but we cannot endanger our people, she said. 
According to the Bloomberg agency, the USA considers introducing sanctions against several companies in Turkey’s military-industrial complex. These restrictions may be applied in July, the agency reported. However, US President Donald Trump does not want to make a final decision on this matter until the meeting with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan on the sidelines of the G20 summit in Japan next week, the report claims. 
The S-400 deal 
The news about the Russian-Turkish talks on the purchase of S-400 systems first came in November 2016. The Russian side confirmed that the contract had been signed on September 12, 2017. Concurrently, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced that Ankara had made an advance payment. Turkey is going to become the first NATO member state to purchase an air defense weapon of this class from Russia. 
US officials warn that Turkey’s contract to purchase S-400 missile systems from Russia will severely damage bilateral relations and lead to unilateral US sanctions against Ankara. 
Earlier, the Pentagon informed that in order to remain in the F-35 fighter jet program, Turkey needs to drop the purchase of Russia’s S-400 missile defense systems. 
Russia’s Spartak Moscow FC snaps up Argentine forward Ezequiel Ponce 
The press service did not disclose the details of the contract with the 22-year-old Argentinian player 
MOSCOW, June 21. /TASS/. Argentinian footballer Ezequiel Ponce has signed a long-term contract with Russia’s legendary football club Spartak Moscow, the team’s press service announced on Friday. 
The press service, however, did not disclose the details of the contract with the 22-year-old Argentinian player. 
Ponce has been playing as a forward for the Italian football club Roma, joining it in 2015, and was also part of the Argentina national U-20 football team. 
Commenting on the transfer deal Spartak FC Director General Tomas Zorn told TASS that Ponce was personally interested in teaming up with the football club in Moscow. 
We have immediately realized that he [Ponce] was interested in joining us, Zorn said in an interview with TASS. The guy wanted to keep developing and growing further. 
However, negotiations with Roma were not easy, Zorn continued. But we understand the Italians because the Argentinian footballer is a young and a very promising player. 
In line with the agreement between the clubs we are not allowed to disclose the sum of the transfer contract, but I can say that the terms of the contract were particularly beneficial for Spartak FC, Zorn added. 
Ezequiel Ponce began his professional career with the Argentinian FC Newell's Old Boys (2013-2015) and also played on loan for Spain’s Granada, French FC Lille and Greek football club AEK. 
Playing for AEK Athens last season, Ponce booked 21 goals and four assists in 43 matches. 
Throughout its almost one century-long history, Spartak Moscow FC was 12-time USSR champion, ten-time Russia champion and is the holder of other numerous titles and trophies. 
The club finished fifth in the 2018/2019 season of the Russian Premier League and is scheduled to begin the next season with a match against Sochi FC on July 13. 
China's Hainan increases export by 53% in January-May 
The cities of Danzhou, Haikou and Sanya top the list of most active players in terms of foreign trade in the region 
HAIKOU, June 22./TASS/. China's Hainan from January to May increased the year on year exports of goods and services by 53% to 13,71 billion yuan ($ 1.99 bln at the current exchange rate). According to the Haikou City Customs Department, this dynamic growth was mainly achieved through the sale of petroleum products. 
The bulk of exports go to petroleum products, which is mainly due to a rather weakened domestic demand for these energy sources, as a result, their exports show such a noticeable surge, explained the head of the local customs statistical unit Ju Chunmei. 
According to the official, more and more intensive cooperation in the energy sector within the framework of the One Belt One Road Initiative (with Russia's active participation) gives a huge impetus to the growth of Hainan's trade turnover. The expert noted that the island is constantly searching for new opportunities to increase large-scale trade with the outside world, thus, work is underway to optimize the conditions for bettering business climate. 
According to official statistics, in January-May, Hainan's trade with foreign partners amounted to 38,39 billion yuan ($ 5.57 bln) which is 45.6% more than during the same period last year. The dynamics in the increase in Hainan's imports, with the island actively promoting free trade, as with the exports, from January to May reached 41.7%, in value terms accounting for 24.68 billion yuan ($ 3.58 bln). Fourteen administrative-territorial units of Hainan already directly interact with international markets — both large settlements and rural counties. The cities of Danzhou, Haikou and Sanya top the list of most active players in terms of foreign trade in the region. 
Lavrov slams West for shutting its eyes to wave of violent Russophobic riots in Georgia 
On June 20, anti-Russian riots broke out in downtown Tbilisi 
MOSCOW, June 24. /TASS/. Western nations are ignoring the eruptions of nationalism and anti-Russian xenophobia in Georgia, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told a meeting with the heads of Russian regional non-profit organizations on Monday. 
Western sponsors are ready to turn a blind eye to the violent riots by nationalists and their Russophobia, just to sever all ties of the Georgian people with our country and rewrite our common history, Lavrov said. 
We have taken an unbiased look at the role of the US and its allies on the international arena, he noted. 
However, Russia is neither fencing itself off from anyone, nor is it isolating itself nor refraining from dialogue on those issues aimed at ironing out problems that the world is facing such as terrorism, drug trafficking, organized crime or the dangers of weapons of mass destruction proliferating, Lavrov noted. 
On June 20, anti-Russian riots broke out in downtown Tbilisi. The pretext for the unrest was attributed to a session of the General Assembly of the Inter-Parliamentary Assembly on Orthodoxy (IAO), which was held in the Georgian parliament. In line with the protocol, the Russian delegation’s head, State Duma MP Sergei Gavrilov, who is the IAO President, addressed the delegates from the seat of the parliament speaker. Media reports claimed that Gavrilov had allegedly participated in combat actions in Abkhazia and Transnistria, although he dismissed this as fake news. In protest, the opposition disrupted the event and staged a rally, which culminated in an attempt to storm the parliament’s building. During the riots, some 240 people were hurt and over 300 others were detained. 
Merck to Showcase New Data Across MS Portfolio at EAN 2019 
Company to present 16 abstracts on MAVENCLAD® (cladribine tablets), Rebif® ( interferon beta-1a) and investigational evobrutinib at the 5th Congress of the European Academy of Neurology 
DARMSTADT, Germany, June 24, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Merck, a leading science and technology company, today announced that data from across its multiple sclerosis (MS) portfolio will be presented at the 5th Congress of the European Academy of Neurology (EAN), 29 June – 2 July 2019 in Oslo, Norway. Merck will present a total of 16 abstracts (12 posters and 4 presentations) on MAVENCLAD® (cladribine tablets), Rebif® (interferon beta-1a) and the investigational therapy evobrutinib (an oral, highly selective Bruton's Tyrosine Kinase [BTK] inhibitor). The company will also present findings from the Patient Perceptions Initiative by MS in the 21st Century. 
The wealth of new data that we are presenting at EAN 2019, from both our approved medicines and our pipeline in MS, highlight our commitment to making further advances for people living with this chronic disease, said Luciano Rossetti, Head of Global Research & Development for the Biopharma business of Merck. 
Key MAVENCLAD® data will include: 
Post-hoc analysis of the CLARITY Extension study to examine the long-term efficacy in high-disease activity patients treated with cladribine tablets 3.5 mg/kg 
Updated safety analysis of cladribine tablets 3.5 mg/kg in patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis (RMS) 
Key Rebif® data will include: 
Results from the Nordic registry regarding the risk of spontaneous abortion and ectopic pregnancy in patients using interferons 
Results from the UK Multiple Sclerosis Risk Sharing Scheme on treatment with subcutaneous interferon beta-1a 
Key evobrutinib data will include: 
Results of analysis of the efficacy and safety of evobrutinib in patients with RMS over 48 Weeks: a randomized, placebo-controlled, phase 2 study 
In addition, Merck will be presenting results from a global mapping study supported by the MS in the 21st Century initiative. The results will outline the availability of educational resources in MS across several themes including 'MS stages and progression'. The initiative, led by a steering group of international MS specialists, aims to gain insight into patient opinions on unmet needs in MS management. 
Below is a selection of abstracts that have been accepted for presentation at EAN 2019: 
All Merck Press Releases are distributed by e-mail at the same time they become available on the Merck Website. Please go to www.merckgroup.com/subscribe to register online, change your selection or discontinue this service. 
About MAVENCLAD® 
MAVENCLAD® is a short-course oral therapy that selectively and periodically targets lymphocytes thought to be integral to the pathological process of relapsing MS (RMS). In August 2017, the European Commission (EC) granted marketing authorization for MAVENCLAD® for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (RMS) in the 28 countries of the European Union (EU) in addition to Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland. MAVENCLAD® has since then been approved in more than 50 countries, including Canada and Australia and most recently in the U.S. in March 2019. 
The clinical development program for cladribine tablets includes: 
The CLARITY (Cladribine Tablets Treating MS Orally) study: a two-year Phase III placebo-controlled study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cladribine tablets as a monotherapy in patients with RRMS. 
The CLARITY extension study: a Phase III placebo-controlled study following on from the CLARITY study, which evaluated the safety and exploratory efficacy of cladribine tablets over two additional years beyond the two-year CLARITY study, according to the treatment assignment scheme for years 3 and 4. 
The ORACLE MS (Oral Cladribine in Early MS) study: a two-year Phase III placebo-controlled study designed to evaluate the efficacy and safety of cladribine tablets as a monotherapy in patients at risk of developing MS (patients who have experienced a first clinical event suggestive of MS). 
The ONWARD (Oral Cladribine Added ON to Interferon beta-1a in Patients With Active Relapsing Disease) study: a Phase II placebo-controlled study designed primarily to evaluate the safety and tolerability of adding cladribine tablets treatment to patients with relapsing forms of MS, who have experienced breakthrough disease while on established interferon-beta therapy. 
PREMIERE (Prospective Observational Long-term Safety Registry of Multiple Sclerosis) study: a long-term observational follow-up safety registry of MS patients who participated in cladribine tablets clinical studies. 
In the two-year CLARITY study, the most commonly reported adverse event (AE) in patients treated with cladribine tablets was lymphopenia (26.7% with cladribine tablets and 1.8% for placebo). The incidence of infections was 48.3% with cladribine tablets and 42.5% with placebo, with 99.1% and 99.0% respectively rated mild-to-moderate by investigators. Adverse Events reported in other clinical studies were similar. 
About Rebif® 
Rebif® (interferon beta-1a) is a disease-modifying drug used to treat relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS) and is similar to the interferon beta protein produced by the human body. The efficacy of Rebif® in chronic progressive MS has not been established. Interferon ß is thought to help reduce inflammation. The exact mechanism is unknown. 
Rebif®, which was approved in Europe in 1998 and in the US in 2002, is registered in more than 90 countries worldwide. Rebif® has been proven to delay the progression of disability, reduce the frequency of relapses and reduce MRI lesion activity and area*. 
Rebif® can be administrated with the RebiSmart® electronic auto-injection device (not approved in the US), or with the RebiDose®single-use disposable pen, or the manual multidose injection pen RebiSlide™. Rebif® can also be administered with the autoinjector Rebiject II® or by manual injection using ready-to-use pre-filled syringes. These injection devices are not approved in all countries. 
In January 2012, the European commission approved the extension of the indication of Rebif® in early multiple sclerosis. The extension of the indication of Rebif® has not been submitted in the United States. 
Rebif® should be used with caution in patients with a history of depression, liver disease, thyroid abnormalities and seizures. Most commonly reported side effects are flu-like symptoms, injection site disorders, elevation of liver enzymes and blood cell abnormalities. Patients, especially those with depression, seizure disorders, or liver problems, should discuss treatment with Rebif® with their doctors. 
*The exact correlation between MRI findings and the current or future clinical status of patients, including disability progression, is unknown. 
Rebif® (interferon beta-1a) is approved in the United States for relapsing forms of MS. 
About Evobrutinib 
Evobrutinib (M2951) is in clinical development to investigate its potential as a treatment for multiple sclerosis (MS), rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). It is an oral, highly selective inhibitor of Bruton's tyrosine kinase (BTK) which is important in the development and functioning of various immune cells including B lymphocytes and macrophages. Evobrutinib is designed to inhibit primary B cell responses such as proliferation and antibody and cytokine release, without directly affecting T cells. BTK inhibition is thought to suppress autoantibody-producing cells, which preclinical research suggests may be therapeutically useful in certain autoimmune diseases. Evobrutinib is currently under clinical investigation and not approved for any use anywhere in the world. 
About Multiple Sclerosis 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, inflammatory condition of the central nervous system and is the most common non-traumatic, disabling neurological disease in young adults. It is estimated that approximately 2.3 million people have MS worldwide. While symptoms can vary, the most common symptoms of MS include blurred vision, numbness or tingling in the limbs and problems with strength and coordination. The relapsing forms of MS are the most common. 
Merck in Neurology and Immunology 
Merck has a long-standing legacy in neurology and immunology, with significant R&D and commercial experience in multiple sclerosis (MS). The company`s current MS portfolio includes two products for the treatment of relapsing MS, with a robust pipeline focusing on discovering new therapies that have the potential to modulate key pathogenic mechanisms in MS. Merck aims to improve the lives of those living with MS, by addressing areas of unmet medical needs. 
The company`s robust immunology pipeline focuses on discovering new therapies that have the potential to modulate key pathogenic mechanisms in chronic diseases such as MS, systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) and forms of arthritis, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and osteoarthritis (OA). 
About Merck 
Merck, a leading science and technology company, operates across healthcare, life science and performance materials. Around 52,000 employees work to make a positive difference to millions of people's lives every day by creating more joyful and sustainable ways to live. From advancing gene editing technologies and discovering unique ways to treat the most challenging diseases to enabling the intelligence of devices – the company is everywhere. In 2018, Merck generated sales of € 14.8 billion in 66 countries. 
Scientific exploration and responsible entrepreneurship have been key to Merck's technological and scientific advances. This is how Merck has thrived since its founding in 1668. The founding family remains the majority owner of the publicly listed company. Merck holds the global rights to the Merck name and brand. The only exceptions are the United States and Canada, where the business sectors of Merck operate as EMD Serono in healthcare, MilliporeSigma in life science, and EMD Performance Materials. 
ZTE secures 25 5G commercial contracts 
Committed to partnerships in the 5G arena with over 60 operators across the globe 
SHENZHEN, China, June 25, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- ZTE Corporation (0763.HK / 000063.SZ), a leading provider of telecommunications, enterprise and consumer technology solutions for the mobile internet, today announced that it has secured 25 5G commercial contracts globally and has been already committed to partnerships in the 5G arena with over 60 operators across the globe. 
With innovation as the driving force, ZTE has made 5G its core development strategy. ZTE is a major contributor and participant in global 5G technology research and standardization. According to IPlytics, a market intelligence tool to analyze technology trends, market developments and a company's competitive position, as of June 15, ZTE had declared 1,424 families of 5G Standard-Essential Patents (SEP) and patent applications to the European Telecommunications Standards Institute (ETSI), ranking global top 3 in terms of the number of such families. 
ZTE has filed more than 3,500 5G patent applications, with over 30 experts at the company taking key positions, such as president and reporter, in international standardization organizations. They have submitted more than 45,000 papers to the organizations, including more than 7,000 proposals for 5G NR/NexGenCore international standards. 
ZTE, with its comprehensive 5G end-to-end products and solution capabilities as well as rich experience in network construction, is fully engaged in the rollout of commercial 5G networks. The company continues to maintain a leading edge in technology, and collaborates with upstream and downstream partners across the industry to promote the commercial deployment of 5G. 
In terms of wireless access, ZTE's full series of 5G AAU commercial products have achieved full-spectrum coverage and application in all 5G scenarios, enabling the fast construction of 5G networks through 5G NSA&SA dual-mode base stations, multi-mode UBR base stations, spectrum sharing, UniSite solutions and other simplified access-layer hardware equipment. Its IT BBU platform with an ultra-large capacity provides support for Multi-Mode network convergence and evolution with minimal connectivity. 
As for core networks, the commercial 5G Common Core first launched by ZTE supports unified 2G/3G/4G/5G/fixed full convergence and full access, as well as 3GPP R15 SA and NSA, cutting investment cost by 40% for operators. 
In the aspect of 5G transport network, ZTE's 5G Flexhaul end-to-end products are ready for commercial use, with large-scale deployment having begun. The performance in terms of ultra-low latency is far ahead of the competition, while the technical specs for ultra-high precision clock synchronization are fully compliant with 3GPP, approaching the definition for a network with perfect synchronization. The multi-dimensional shaping technology and the next-generation FEC can increase the transmission distance of over 100G by 30%, significantly reducing the difficulty of deploying over 100G networks as well as the upgrade cost. 
In the field of terminals, ZTE has collaborated with more than 20 operators around the world in the development of 5G terminals. ZTE's 5G terminal solutions include 5G smart phones, 5G outdoor routers, 5G indoor routers, 5G mobile hotspots, 5G data terminals and 5G modules, among other serialized and polymorphic 5G terminal products. ZTE also provides various industries with customized 5G modular solutions. ZTE unveiled its first flagship 5G mobile phone, Axon 10 Pro, at the Mobile World Congress in Barcelona, Spain, in February 2019, taking the lead in commercializing 5G mobile phones. In the first half of 2019, ZTE Axon 10 Pro in 5G edition was released successively in China, Germany, the United Arab Emirates, Finland, Austria, etc., with sales of the device having formally begun in Finland and the United Arab Emirates. 
ZTE helps operators build an ideal 5G network based on a tripartite philosophy of Greatness Lies in Simplicity, Swiftness Is Invincible, and Act Dynamically, while, in the process of network construction, taking into account the four operations of arithmetic: addition, subtraction, multiplication and division: 
Subtraction refers Greatness Lies in Simplicity by building a minimalist network, unifying the network control layer, streamlining the hardware equipment for the access layer, and achieving shared hardware capabilities. 
Addition means to increase the intelligence quotient or IQ of the network to make it more intelligent and enhance the competitiveness of network equipment. 
Division pertains to subdividing the scenario and using slicing technology to segment the physical network into several virtual mobile networks that serve N vertical customers at the same time. The method allows for network reuse and reduces the cost of building, operating and maintaining the network, while also slashing the cost associated with application trial and error, while improving online speed. 
Multiplication means cross-border in many senses of the word, referring chiefly to the 5G network being multiplied across many verticals, delivering 5G control, 5G UAV, AR/VR and other abilities, using technology aggregation as a means to holistically bring entire industries together, while converting an industry's assets into a value-add for its IT and communications networks, and, in doing so, unleashing a revolution that changes the business model for each and every industry vertical. 
Given the strong demand for 5G applications and the change in the models of how businesses will collaborate in the world of 5G, ZTE and its partners jointly carried out a large number of exploratory projects in 5G industry applications, promoted cross-industry integration and development, advocated for the implementation of intelligent ports, intelligent industry, intelligent security and other industry applications, in a move to build a healthy and complete industrial ecosystem together. 
To date, ZTE has teamed up with operators and partners to build models for vertical industry application of 5G+ in more than 15 verticals, and established strategic cooperation with nearly 200 partners within the ecosystem to promote the digital transformation of the industry. 
About ZTE 
ZTE is a provider of advanced telecommunications systems, mobile devices, and enterprise technology solutions to consumers, carriers, companies and public sector customers. As part of ZTE's M-ICT strategy, the company is committed to provide customers with integrated end-to-end innovations to deliver excellence and value as the telecommunications and information technology sectors converge. Listed in the stock exchanges of Hong Kong and Shenzhen (H share stock code: 0763.HK / A share stock code: 000063.SZ), ZTE's products and services are sold to over 500 operators in more than 160 countries. ZTE commits 10 per cent of its annual revenue to research and development and has leadership roles in international standard-setting organizations. ZTE is committed to corporate social responsibility and is a member of the UN Global Compact. For more information, please visit www.zte.com.cn. 
Transnistria’s leader calls for Russian peacekeepers’ continued presence in the region 
Russian peacekeepers were deployed to the conflict zone on July 29, 1992 
CHISINAU, June 25. /TASS/. Leader of the unrecognized Transnistrian Republic, Vadim Krasnoselsky, has spoken out in favor of preserving the existing framework of the peacekeeping operation in the region conducted under Russia’s umbrella. According to the Transnistrian leader’s press service, the issue was discussed at his meeting with Russian Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Kozak who paid a two-day visit to Moldova. 
The operation, which has proven its effectiveness over almost three decades, should be continued in its current form. The combination of the work of Russian, Transnistrian and Moldovan peacekeeping forces is a unique and effective mechanism, the press service said. 
Russian peacekeepers were deployed to the conflict zone on July 29, 1992, under an agreement on the principles of a peaceful settlement of the armed conflict in the Transnistrian region of Moldova that the presidents of Russia and Moldova signed in the presence of Transnistria’s leader on July 21, 1992. Currently, Russian peacekeepers are ensuring peace in the security zone disengaging the sides, alongside peacekeepers from Moldova and Transnistria and a group of military observers from Ukraine. 
Transnistria, a largely Russian-speaking region, broke away from Moldova following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991. Its relations with Moldova’s central government in Chisinau have been highly mixed and extremely tense at times ever since then. In 1992 and 1993, tensions erupted into a bloody armed conflict that claimed the lives of hundreds of people on both sides. 
Russia’s Zubov to be inducted into Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto 
During his 16-year-long NHL career, Zubov won two Stanley Cup championships - with New York Rangers in 1994 and with Dallas Stars in 1999 
MOSCOW, June 26. /TASS/. Russia’s Olympic champion and two-times Stanley Cup winner Sergei Zubov will be inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto, according to the list of new members published by the Hall’s press service. 
Together with Zubov, Guy Carbonneau, Vaclav Nedomansky and Hayley Wickenheiser and will be inducted in the player category, while Jim Rutherford and Jerry York will go in as builders. The official ceremony will be held on November 18. 
An outstanding prototypical offensive defenceman, Sergei Zubov contributed significantly at both ends of the ice, and is included in the same conversations that discuss the best NHL defencemen of that era, the Hockey Hall of Fame said on its website. 
Sergei Zubov was born July 22, 1970 in Moscow. He was a member of the Unified Team at the 1992 Winter Olympic Games and earned Olympic gold in that tournament. 
During his 16-year-long NHL career, Zubov won two Stanley Cup championships - with New York Rangers in 1994 and with Dallas Stars in 1999. He also has four All-Star Game appearances (1998, 1999, 2000, and 2008), 2nd Team NHL All-Star (2006) and Norris Trophy Finalist (2006). The Russian player scored 771 points in 1068 NHL games (152 goals, 619 assists). 
Bulgaria to complete TurkStream branch before end of 2020 
MOSCOW, June 26. /TASS/. President of the Bulgarian National Assembly Tsveta Karayancheva announced on Wednesday the country's plans to complete construction of the Balkan Stream - a branch of the TurkStream gas pipeline through Bulgaria to Serbia - before the end of 2020. 
In accordance with European directives, we are beginning construction of a branch of the TurkStream. We are not evading the obligations that we have made to our citizens. In connection with this we have made changes to our country's energy strategy. Before the end of 2020 with full compliance with European directives, the construction of a branch, the so-called Balkan Stream, which would ensure gas supplies to other European countries, will be completed, she said at a meeting with Russian State Duma Speaker Vyacheslav Volodin. 
Karayancheva recalled that Bulgaria was supposed to be the first point of the unrealized project of the South Stream gas pipeline. We were forced to cease activities for the project’s implementation, as violations of the provisions of the third liberalization package were found, she said. 
Bulgaria has previously participated in the construction of the South Stream gas pipeline, which was planned to be laid along the bottom of the Black Sea from the Anapa region to the Bulgarian port of Varna, and then to Italy and Austria, but in the summer of 2014, at the insistence of the European Commission, Sofia ceased works, and did not issue permission to lay pipes in its territory. In December 2014, Russian President Vladimir Putin announced that the South Stream pipeline would be replaced by a pipeline through Turkey, known as the TurkStream. 
The first line of the pipeline was intended for the Turkish market, the second - for gas supply to the countries of South and South-Eastern Europe. 
Slovakia not questioning PACE's decision to restore Russian delegation's rights 
Slovakia's parliament speaker Andrej Danko and the head of the permanent delegation of Slovakia's National Council to PACE said in a joint statement that Slovakia supported the Russian delegation 
PRAGUE, June 27. /TASS/. The leadership of Slovakia's National Council (parliament) does not question the decision of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe (PACE) to restore the rights of the Russian delegation in full, parliament speaker Andrej Danko and the head of the permanent delegation of Slovakia's National Council to PACE said in a joint statement obtained by TASS. 
Slovakia is not withdrawing from PACE and in now way questions PACE's decision to restore the rights of the Russian delegation, the statement said. On the contrary, we supported the Russian delegation and welcomed PACE's decision, the statement added. 
Three out of four Slovak representatives in PACE voted for restoring the rights of the Russian delegation. Only Martin Poliacik voted against it, thus opposing Slovakia's official position. 
The statement said that Poliacik abused his powers and signed a joint statement by the delegations of Estonia, Georgia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Ukraine that criticized Russia's return to PACE. 
Russia not going to review its defense plans for Far East — Putin 
The country keeps boosting its defense potential in the region in accordance with plans, including to ensure safety on the Northern Sea Route 
MOSCOW, June 28. /TASS/. Russia is not going to give up its plans to boost the capacities of its Pacific Fleet and other military forces in the Far East, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in an interview with Financial Times, published by the Kremlin website on Thursday. 
We will continue to develop our Pacific Fleet as planned. Of course, we also respond to global developments and to what happens in relations between other countries. We can see all of this, but it does not affect our defence development plans, including those in the Russian Far East, Putin said. 
We are self-sufficient, and we are confident. Russia is the largest continental power, he added. 
The Russian leader said Russia had have a nuclear submarine base in the Far East. The country keeps boosting its defense potential in the region in accordance with plans, including to ensure safety on the Northern Sea Route, which Russia plans to develop. 
We intend to attract many partners to this effort, including our Chinese partners. We may even reach an agreement with American shippers and with India, which has also indicated its interest in the Northern Sea Route, Putin said. 
I would say that we are also primed for cooperation in the Asia Pacific region, and I have grounds to believe that Russia can make a considerable, tangible and positive contribution to stabilising the situation, he added. 
BBC’s further allegations about Salisbury incident cannot be trusted, embassy says 
The Russian diplomats expressed bafflement that the very fact that a certain person visited London in the beginning of March is presented as a conclusive evidence of his connection to the incident 
LONDON, July 1. /TASS/. BBC’s allegations about involvement of Russian national Denis Sergeyev in the Salisbury incident are not backed by any documents and for this reason cannot be trusted, the Russian embassy to the United Kingdom said on Monday. 
As previously, this publication is based on reports from the untrustworthy investigative group Bellingcat and information provided by anonymous sources to the journalist Mark Urban, which are impossible to verify. This, predictably, raises a number of questions, the embassy said. First of all, the so-called investigators, while describing the movements and phone records of the Russian citizen whom they named as operational commander of the Salisbury attack, have not made a single attempt to support their suggestions with something that would in the least look like original documents. The public is invited to simply trust their word. 
The Russian diplomats expressed bafflement that the very fact that a certain person visited London in the beginning of March is presented as a conclusive evidence of his connection to the incident. 
According to the Russian embassy, BBC’s publication has shed no extra light on the Salisbury incident. Instead, it was obviously geared to remind the public of the alleged ‘Russian involvement,’ diverting attention from the obvious questions that the British authorities can’t answer. 
It is worth noting that the Metropolitan Police have refused to comment on this publication, as it relates to an ongoing investigation in which a number of lines of inquiry are being pursued. In this light, we invite readers to decide for themselves on the relevance of the fresh British demands to Russia to accept its responsibility and bring the suspects to justice, the embassy stressed. 
BBC reported on Friday that Denis Sergeyev, a Russian national, had allegedly exercised operational control of the actions of those suspected in the poisoning attack on former Russian intelligence officer Sergei Skripal and his daughter Yulia. According to BBC, Sergeyev, a major general, serves at the Main Intelligence Directorate of the Russian General Staff. BBC’s correspondent Mark Urban cited independent sources as saying that Sergeyev had allegedly maintained contact with senior officers in Moscow while being in London. 
Skripal poisoning incident 
If the British version of the affair is to be believed former Russian military intelligence (GRU) Colonel Sergei Skripal, 66, who had been convicted in Russia of spying for Great Britain and later swapped for Russian intelligence officers, and his daughter Yulia, 33, suffered the effects of a nerve agent in the British city of Salisbury on March 4. Claiming that the substance used in the attack had been a Novichok-class nerve agent developed in the Soviet Union, London rushed to accuse Russia of being involved in the incident. Moscow rejected all of the United Kingdom’s accusations, saying that neither the Soviet Union nor Russia ever had any program aimed at developing such an agent. Notably, Britain’s military chemical laboratory at Porton Down near Salisbury it failed to trace the origin of the substance that poisoned Sergei and Yulia Skripals. 
Russian deputy defense minister to visit North Korea 
During the upcoming talks, the sides plan to discuss the situation in Northeast Asia and on the Korean Peninsula 
MOSCOW, July 2. /TASS/. Russian Deputy Defense Minister Alexander Fomin will visit North Korea to discuss the situation on the Korean Peninsula and prospects for bilateral cooperation in the military sphere, the Russian Defense Ministry said on Tuesday. 
Russian Deputy Defense Minister Colonel General Alexander Fomin will make a working visit to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK), where he will hold bilateral talks with the leadership of the DPRK's Ministry of People's Armed Forces, the Defense Ministry said. 
During the upcoming talks, the sides plan to discuss the situation in Northeast Asia and on the Korean Peninsula, the conditions and prospects of Russian-North Korean cooperation in the military sphere, as well as relevant issues on the international and regional security agenda, the ministry added. 
Nurmagomedov advises McGregor not to ‘pull any tricks in Abu Dhabi’ 
UFC Chief Dana White announced earlier that McGregor planned to come watching the fights of the UFC-242 tournament, to be held on September 7 in Abu Dhabi 
MOSCOW, July 2. /TASS/. Russia’s UFC Reigning Lightweight Champion Khabib Nurmagomedov recommended Irish professional mixed martial arts fighter and boxer, Conor McGregor, to refrain from his typical show-offs at the UFC-242 tournament in Abu Dhabi. 
UFC (Ultimate Fighting Championship) President Dana White announced earlier that McGregor planned to come watching the fights of the UFC-242 tournament, scheduled to be held on September 7 in Abu Dhabi, the United Arab Emirates. 
It will be more difficult to leave Abu Dhabi than New York, Nurmagomedov said on the air of Russia’s Rossiya-24 television channel. If he plans to come, he should sit and watch the fights because it will be impossible to pull any of his underhanded tricks there. 
Abu Dhabi is no place for show-offs. Let him come if he plans to come, but his shenanigans won’t work there, Nurmagomedov added. 
In early April 2018, McGregor attacked a bus with fighters, including Nurmagomedov, as it was leaving a press conference in Brooklyn’s Barclays Center. Using a metal barricade and other objects, McGregor and his accomplices smashed the windows of the bus injuring some of the passengers inside. The Irish fighter was later ordered to pay a fine and community service. 
On the night of October 6, 2018, Nurmagomedov defeated McGregor during the UFC 229 tournament in Las Vegas, defending his lightweight title with a choke in round four of the fight. However, straight after the fight a mass brawl broke out between the teams of both fighters, including Nurmagomedov, who jumped out of the cage and attempted to beat up one of the Irish opponent’s team members for insulting him. 
Both athletes were later slapped with various penalties for that incident. A court in the US state of Nevada imposed a nine-month suspension and a fine of $500,000 on Nurmagomedov. 
UFC Reigning Lightweight Champion Nurmagomedov is scheduled to fight against UFC Interim Champion Dustin Poirier of the United States on September 7 in Abu Dhabi. 
The 30-year-old Russian fighter, nicknamed ‘The Eagle,’ currently holds an unblemished record of 27 wins in all of his mixed martial arts fights (8 by KOs, 9 by submission and 10 by decision). Dustin ‘The Diamond’ Poirier, 30, has fought to win 25 bouts (12 by KO/TKO, 7 by submission and 6 by decisions). He also lost five of his previous fights (2 by KO/TKO, 1 by submission and 2 by decisions). 
Russia concerned about new Israeli airstrikes on Syria, says diplomat 
The attacks may destabilize the entire region, not only Syria, Russia's diplomat warns 
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova 
MOSCOW, July 2. /TASS/. Israeli airstrikes on Syria on the eve of July 1, the largest attack in the past year, cause major concern in Russia, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Tuesday. 
We are concerned about these alarming developments, the spokeswoman said. Their escalation is of extreme concern. The use of force, blatantly violating Syria’s sovereignty, not only prevents normalization of the situation in the country, but also carries the potential of destabilizing the region, in which none of the Middle Eastern states can see their national security interests reliably ensured, the diplomat commented on the developments. 
On the Monday eve, Syrian air defense facilities repelled a missile attack targeting Damascus and Homs. According to SANA news agency, Israeli warplanes fired missiles from the airspace of Lebanon. 
Reuters said representatives of the Israel Defense Forces had refrained from comment. 
Hainan authorities eager to invite more foreign specialists 
Foreign professionals are working in the spheres of tourism, education, medicine, science, etc 
HAIKOU, July 4./TASS/. Over 300 new enterprises with foreign capital were opened in the southern Chinese province of Hainan over the past year, and the total number of foreign specialists from abroad exceeded 5,400 people, according to the Hainan Daily newspaper. 
In recent years, the provincial authorities have been actively pursuing a policy of openness, attracting both foreign investment and specialists from abroad. Foreign personnel, the newspaper writes, work on Hainan in such areas as tourism, education, medical care, marine engineering, science, etc. The article highlights that all this gives impetus to Hainan's development. 
Opening more and more to the world, Hainan, which is at a new stage of its development, needs foreign specialists who, by participating in various international projects, including the services sector and enterprises with foreign capital, contribute to the construction of a pilot free trade zone and a free port with Chinese features on Hainan, the newspaper said in an editorial. 
At working meetings of the provincial administration, as the newspaper writes, emphasizes the importance of attracting foreign talents for the implementation of key projects on the island, which should not only boost the development of the province itself, but also the entire country. Thus, the newspaper notes, it is better to attract foreign experts not from other provinces, but directly from other countries. Local authorities are interested in good specialists from Hong Kong and Macao, for instance, as well as from the Island of Taiwan. 
The expansion of Hainan's air service also plays a major part in attracting foreign specialists, the newspaper writes. By 2020 the number of international airlines should increase from 70 to a hundred. Hainan provides great opportunities for the development of my business. My youngest son was born in Haikou, here he went to primary school. We plan to stay here for a long time, says the publication, citing a general practitioner who came to the province to work from the US. 
Free trade zone 
In April 2018, President Xi Jinping said that the Chinese authorities intend to actively involve Hainan in globalization and to draw foreign investors to the island province. 
By 2050, according to the authorities, the island should become a unique international cluster with an advanced economy, developed tourism, top-notch scientific, technical and financial potential, and modern medicine. The branches of the best universities and offices of the most powerful corporations in the world will be located on the Island of Hainan. 
Czech Republic, Russia agree to keep number of flights as it was — transport official 
This followed Russian authorities' suggestion to finalize flights parameters with the Czech Republic in September 
MOSCOW, July 4. /TASS/. Russia’s Transport Ministry suggested that the final agreement with the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic on the flights parameters should be postponed to September. 
The Russian side has submitted its response to the proposal by the Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic, in which it suggests that the final agreement on the format of further air transport cooperation should be postponed to September, the end of the summer season, the ministry’s press service said in a statement on Thursday. That would allow the citizens of the two countries to plan their trips in the height of the season, the ministry added. 
The Ministry of Transport of the Czech Republic said earlier that it had been negotiating the resumption of flights between the two countries with the Russian colleagues and expected an agreement to be reached in coming days. 
Czech transport authorities, in turn, said they are interested in the soonest settlement of the situation in the sphere of passenger air service between the two countries. We don’t want any further restrictions in air carriages between our countries in the period of summer vacations. We don’t want to cause any discomfort to passengers, Czech transport ministry’s spokesman, Frantisek Jemelka told TASS on Thursday. Inter-ministerial talks will continue all through the summer to agree on the frame for further cooperation, Jemelka added. 
As Jemelka told TASS, Russian and Czech transport ministries have agreed to keep the existing number of flights by national air carriers in each other’s airspace. 
On July 2, Russian airlines had to cut or fully suspend flights to the Czech Republic as requested by the country’s aviation authorities. For example, Russia’s flagship airline Aeroflot reduced the number of daily flights from Moscow to Prague from six to two. Pobeda, a Russian low-cost carrier, was ready to halt flights starting July 4 from Moscow to the spa town of Karlovy Vary, while Ural Airlines - from Yekaterinburg to Prague. 
A source told TASS that the Czech side decided to restrict the fights of Russian airlines after aviation authorities of the two countries failed to agree on the Prague-Seoul flights of the Czech Airlines through Russian airspace. Kommersant business daily wrote that Russia’s Transport Ministry demanded that its Czech colleagues allow a third Russian airline operate along the Moscow-Prague route. In the event of a refusal, Russia vowed not to extend its temporary permission for Czech Airlines to conduct flights from Prague to Seoul via the shortest Trans-Siberian route over the Russian territory. The permission expired on July 1. 
On the same day, the Czech aviation authorities reported that temporary flight permits had been granted until July 7. Flights were fully resumed. 
Russian cyclist Brezhniva decides on comeback after 4-year disqualification 
She has been actively training for the Russian Championships in St. Petersburg in August, according to a sports official 
MOSCOW, July 4. /TASS/. Russia’s two-time European champion in track cycling Yelena Brezhniva decided to return to sports after she had served a lengthy suspension for anti-doping violations, Valery Grinkovsky, the head of the Tula Region Cycling Federation, told TASS on Thursday. 
The Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA) announced in February 2016 that Brezhniva was found guilty of violating anti-doping regulations after her doping sample tested positive for a banned performance enhancing drug. She was slapped with a four-year disqualification, effective from June 22, 2015. 
After Brezhniva was informed about the lengthy suspension, she announced a decision to wrap up her sports career. 
Brezhniva was overemotional at the moment of making the decision, Grinkovsky told TASS. Everything is different now, Brezhniva made a decision to return to sports and last year she resumed active trainings. 
Grinkovsky added that the 29-year-old cyclist, whose disqualification term expired on June 21, was most likely to compete at the Russian Championships in St. Petersburg in August. 
She has now the right to compete in any tournament and to train for the Russian Championships in St. Petersburg, scheduled for August 4-8, the official said. She and her coach made a decision to change the race format from sprint to tempo race. 
As we say in cycling sports it is very important for Yelena to catch the stream, Grinkovsky continued. Her results at the upcoming Russian Championships will define the athlete's perspectives for the future. I can say that currently she is in quite a good physical shape. 
Brezhniva was on the country’s national team since 2008 until her suspension. She is two-time European champion in team sprint, winning the titles in 2013 and 2014. 
Venezuelan opposition leader says ready for dialogue with Maduro, cooperation with Russia 
Guaido insisted on holding free elections in the Latin American country 
TASS, July 5. Venezuelan opposition leader Juan Guaido has said in an interview with France 24 TV channel he is ready to hold dialogue with Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro to find a solution to the ongoing crisis and also expressed readiness to cooperate with Russia. 
Guaido said the opposition could hold talks with the dictator, but called for continuing demonstrations and exerting diplomatic pressure on Caracas. The politician noted Norway’s role of a mediator in ironing out the crisis in Venezuela, but stated that so far the talks have been deadlocked. If we are able to use it [negotiating platform] as a means to ease tensions…no doubt we are going to use it, he said. 
In comment on Russian President Vladimir Putin’s statement that there is the need to stick to democratic procedures and decide on Venezuela’s future through elections, Guaido said he and his allies carefully listen to what the Russian and French leaders said and say. Certainly, we are ready to work with the Russian president and all other presidents on this issue, he said. 
Guaido insisted on holding free elections in the Latin American country. We will participate in these elections, which will be attended by international observers, he said, noting that the current crisis in Venezuela flared up over Maduro’s refusal to hold this voting in 2018. 
Last Saturday, the Associated Press news agency reported citing three sources that Venezuela’s authorities and the opposition could resume talks. These negotiations could take place on the Caribbean island of Barbados. However, on July 2 Guaido said his supporters were not planning to again take part in the talks with representatives of Maduro’s administration. 
Vostochny Cosmodrome to launch up to 6 rockets next year 
Currently, the cosmodrome has only one track ready for the launch of automated spacecraft 
VOSTOCHNY COSMODROME /Amur Region/, July 5. /TASS/. About six rocket launches will be carried out at the Vostochny Cosmodrome next year, Director-General of Roscosmos, the Russian State Space Corporation, Dmitry Rogozin said on Friday, following a successful launch of the Soyuz-2.1b rocket with Meteor-M satellite and 32 mini-satellites. 
We are hoping that the Vostochny Cosmodrome will be much busier next year. We are planning to reschedule commercial and state launches [to be carried out] here. Overall, next year from four to six launches are planned here, he said. 
Currently, the Vostochny Cosmodrome only has one track ready for the launch of automated spacecraft. Roscosmos has yet to open another track for the launch of manned spacecraft at the Vostochny Cosmodrome. 
Roscosmos had 45 launches planned for 2019, including both space rocket launches and test launches of ballistic missiles. 
Auschwitz survivor of Nazi ‘Angel of Death’ torture passes away at 85 
Eva Mozes Kor, born in 1934 in Romania, was imprisoned in the Auschwitz death camp at the age of 10 with her twin sister Miriam 
WARSAW, July 5. /TASS/. Former prisoner of the Auschwitz death camp located on the territory of Poland during World War II Eva Mozes Kor has died in Krakow aged 85, a spokesperson for the local police Sebastian Glen told reporters on Friday. “She died of natural causes,” he stated. 
In recent years, Kor had been living in the US. She arrived in Poland with her son, visiting Auschwitz and the former concentration camp. She died in her hotel room in the early hours of Thursday. 
Eva Mozes Kor was born on January 31, 1934 in Romania. She was sent to the Auschwitz death camp at the age of 10 with her twin sister Miriam. Eva and Miriam were selected for a number of inhumane tests conducted by the notorious ‘Angel of Death’ Josef Mengele. 
The twins’ parents and two older sisters were killed in the camp. The girls survived, returning to Romania after the war and then immigrating to Israel. In the 1960s, Eva married a US citizen and moved to the United States. 
The life of Eva Mozes Kor has served as the basis for various documentary films. In 1984, she established the CANDLES Holocaust Museum and Education Center in the US, honoring the memory of child victims of Auschwitz experiments. 
Ukrainian channel cancels TV bridge with Moscow citing threats to reporters’ lives 
The channel recalled that it was planning to organize the first non-political TV bridge between people from Ukraine and Russia 
KIEV, July 8. /TASS/. Ukraine’s Newsone TV channel has cancelled the Kiev-Moscow TV bridge due to threats of physical violence against its employees, the channel reported on Monday. 
Due to the direct threats of physical harm that the channel, journalists and their families received, Newsone announces that the Need to Talk TV marathon has been cancelled, the TV channel said on its official website. 
The channel recalled that it was planning to organize the first non-political TV bridge between people from Ukraine and Russia. The threats against its employees, the channel branded as Ukraine’s return to the times of direct intimidation and pressure on freedom of journalists. 
We want that peace was established in Ukraine, but there are forces that represent the war party, who will not favor this outcome, the statement reads. 
On Sunday, July 7, the Vesti with Dmitry Kiselyov program on Rossiya-1 TV channel was reported that on July 12 between 18:00 and 20:00 the channels will host a Kiev-Moscow TV bridge entitled Need to Talk. It was supposed that the TV bridge will be held along with Ukrainian Newsone TV channel, part of Chairman of the political council of Ukraine’s Opposition Platform - For Life party Viktor Medvedchuk’s media group. 
Many Ukrainian politicians and a number of political parties strongly opposed this idea. Speaker of the Verkhovna Rada, Ukrainian Parliament, Andrey Parubiy called to strip Newsone of its license. The Ukrainian Security Service sent a message to the heads of the Novosti media holding (112 Ukraine, Newsone, ZIK TV channels), warning about the accountability for staging joint events with Rossiya TV channel and other broadcasters of an aggressor state, who are placed under sanctions by National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine. The Security service also proposed introducing special economic and other sanctions against the legal entities who are using 112 Ukraine and Newsone logos for broadcasting purposes. 
The TV channel headquarters is seeing a rally of protesters against the TV bridge on Monday. The nationalist forces also promised to stage a rally in front of the Ukrainian presidential administration office at 14:00 local time, demanding immediate reaction from the Ukrainian leader in response to this initiative. 
Tehran exceeds uranium enrichment level of 4.5% — Iranian Atomic Energy Organization 
Earlier, the organization's spokesman said that Tehran had increased its uranium enrichment above the 3.67% limit set by the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action on nuclear program 
MOSCOW, July 8. /TASS/. Iran has exceeded the uranium enrichment level of 4.5% on Monday, Iranian Atomic Energy Organization Spokesman Behrouz Kamalvandi told the Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA). 
Today, Iran has exceeded the uranium [enrichment level] of 4.5%. The purity level is enough to meet the country’s needs for fuel for our power stations, he said. 
Kamalvandi added that the International Atomic Energy Agency will analyze the selected samples and announce the exact uranium enrichment level. 
Earlier on Monday, the Iranian Atomic Energy Organization spokesman said that Tehran had increased its uranium enrichment above the 3.67% limit set by the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) on Iran’s nuclear program. 
In addition, Iran’s ISNA news agency reported on Monday that the country’s Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif had sent a message to High Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy Federica Mogherini, which contained details of the second phase of Iran’s activities to reduce its commitments under the JCPOA. However, the news agency did not provide any details. 
Iran nuclear deal issue 
In 2015, Iran and six major powers (five member states of the United Nations Security Council - Russia, the United States, France, the United Kingdom and China - and Germany) agreed on the final Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, which particularly stipulated the removal of sanctions imposed on Tehran over its nuclear program. 
On May 8, 2018, US President Donald Trump announced Washington’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal. He said that old sanctions on Iran would be restored and new ones would be introduced in case Tehran attempted to pursue its nuclear ambitions. The first batch of new US sanctions on Iran took effect on August 7 and the second one became effective on November 5. In contrast, Great Britain, Germany and France called on other participants in the deal to continue fulfilling it. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that Moscow would seek to maintain the agreement. 
On May 8, 2019, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani announced that Tehran was reducing its commitments under the JCPOA. He pointed out that the other signatories, primarily EU countries, had failed to fulfill their economic obligations under the deal, making it irrelevant. Rouhani said they had two months to return to compliance. The deadline expired on July 7. 
MINSK, July 8. /TASS/. Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko supports Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky’s proposal to organize an international meeting of leaders of Ukraine, Russia, the United States, the United Kingdom, Germany and France in Minsk, the Belarusian leader’s press service said in a statement issued on Monday. 
Our President is fully supporting the proposal [put forward] by Vladimir Zelensky. This position is unchanged and means that we should not look at each other through the barrel of guns, we need to sit down and resolve the issues which there are quite a few, the statement reads. 
Speaking about the proposed participants of the meeting, the press service recalled that Lukashenko had earlier noted the need to settle the Ukrainian issue in a three-party framework, namely Belarus, Russia and Ukraine. But since we cannot sort out the issue this way, and a party to the conflict — Ukraine in this case — is insisting and proposing that other players take part, we support this too. Even more so, since Alexander Lukashenko was already mentioning the US in the context of straightening out the conflict. It will be difficult to resolve this issue without the Americans, they are too immersed in these processes, the press service stated. 
Speaking about the possibility of such a meeting, Minsk underlined that there can’t be two opinions here. The war is at our doorstep and Minsk has always considered and still considers it an honor to be a platform for peaceful initiatives and talks, the statement concludes. 
Earlier on Monday, Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky addressed Russian President Vladimir Putin with an initiative to hold a meeting in Minsk as mediated by the US, the UK, Germany and France. According to Zelensky, we need to discuss who Crimea belongs to and who is not present in Donbass. Zelensky said he would like to see US President Donald Trump, UK Prime Minister Theresa May, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President Emmanuel Macron as the company for talks. 
Medvedev congratulates Greece's new prime minister 
The New Democracy party led by Kyriakos Mitsotakis won parliamentary elections in Greece 
Greece's newly appointed Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis 
MOSCOW, July 8. /TASS/. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev has sent a congratulatory telegram to Kyriakos Mitsotakis, head of the New Democracy party which won the parliamentary elections in Greece, the press service of the Russian cabinet of ministers said on Tuesday. 
I remember with satisfaction our meeting in Moscow in February 2019, which created favorable prerequisites for strengthening Russian-Greek cooperation. I confirm readiness for expanding active inter-governmental work on all relevant issues on the bilateral agenda, Medvedev said. 
The Russian prime minister reminded that the two countries have a history of friendly and partnership relations. He added that trade and economic cooperation between Moscow and Athens is developing, and joint projects are being implemented in the spheres of energy, industry, infrastructure, science, culture, and others. 
Absurd to stop human progress: Putin slams calls to prioritize ecopolitics over technology 
The president said that instead of a substantive discussion regarding the global, climatic and environmental agenda we often see.. downright populism, speculation 
YEKATERINBURG, July 9./TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin slammed appeals to abandon technological progress for the sake of prioritizing green politics. 
A profound and meaningful discussion is needed to hash over the problems of combining long-term development and environmental welfare, and a high standard of living, the president told the Global Manufacturing and Industrialization Summit (GMIS) on Tuesday. 
However, instead of a substantive discussion regarding the global, climatic and environmental agenda, we often see, unfortunately, downright populism, speculation, and sometimes, I am not afraid to say this - simply narrow-mindedness, Putin stressed. 
It comes to the point when the world is urged to ditch progress, which will make it possible to freeze the situation at the best, and create prosperity for the select few. In contrast, hundreds of millions of people throughout the globe will have to accept that at the moment they have, or it would be more honest to say, don’t have access to clean water, food, education and other benefits of civilization, he said. 
This archaism is a blind alley, it is a road to new conflicts, the Russian leader pointed out. According to him, the migration crisis in Europe and in the US stems from this. A blind faith in simple, impressive but inefficient solutions leads to problems, Putin cautioned, mentioning appeals to abandon nuclear and hydrocarbon energy, while betting on current alternative sources of energy. 
Will people feel comfortable living on the planet dotted with wind-driven generators and covered with layers of solar batteries? he asked, then noting that as the saying goes instead of tidying up the house we’ll just sweep the garbage under the rug. He also mentioned problems with wind-powered generators that lead to the deaths of birds, and other side effects that this source creates. 
Of course, we can't stop those who want to wear animal skins or move into caves, but it is impossible and absolutely absurd to stop human progress, the Russian president stressed. 
US poet Julian Henry Lowenfeld receives Russian passport 
The poet is widely regarded as one of the best translators of Alexander Pushkin’s poetry into English 
MOSCOW, July 12. /TASS/. American poet Julian Henry Lowenfeld has received Russian citizenship. The ceremony took place in the Russian State Historic Museum in presence of Russian Culture Minister Vladimir Medinsky. 
Exactly a month ago Russian president signed a decree, awarding you Russian citizenship. This is symbolic because it happened literally a few days after your birthday and the 220th anniversary of Alexander Pushkin’s birthday and you are primarily famous as a great translator, possibly, the best translator of his poems into English, the minister said. 
I know what special place Russia holds in your life. Therefore, your becoming a Russian citizen is logical and absolutely right. I congratulate you from the bottom of my heart, he added. 
Julian Henry Lowenfeld 
Lowenfeld is an American poet, playwright, trial lawyer, composer and translator. He is fluent in Russian, German, Spanish, French and Italian. 
The poet is widely regarded as one of the best translators of Pushkin’s poetry into English. 
US citizens may lose income due to ban on investment in Russian economy — Foreign Ministry 
The US has been pushing forward with new sanctions against Russia 
MOSCOW, July 12. /TASS/. The initiatives to introduce sanctions against investments in the Russian economy tabled in the United States may deprive US citizens of significant income, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Friday. 
US authorities can only deprive their citizens of considerable income by prohibiting investments in the Russian economy, retirees included, because US pension funds readily invest money in our reliable and highly liquid debt securities. This will neither impede Russia's development nor will turn us away from the selected path. So, it’s time for Washington politicians to think whether it is worth carrying on senseless sanctioning measures that do not only demonstrate to the whole world their inability to influence Moscow but also hurt their own voters, the Ministry states. 
On Thursday, the US Congress' House of Representatives approved an amendment to the draft defense budget for 2020 financial year, stipulating restricting measures on the Russian sovereign debt. 
Kremlin spokesman denies media allegations about Russia’s financing Italy’s Lega party 
According to the presidential press secretary, BuzzFeed’s article is not about money 
MOSCOW, July 12. /TASS/. The Kremlin bluntly denies media allegations about talks with Italy’s Lega (League) party on possible financing of that political force, Russian president’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov said on Friday. 
Indeed, we took notice of the publication of these records, he said, commenting on BuzzFeed’s (a US website) article alleging that Lega had received financing from Russia. We think it strange that it caused such fuss. Obviously, it is not about any money for the party. We can only express our bafflement. 
Not a single Italian party and not a single Italian politician have ever received any money from Russia, either directly or through any deals, Peskov stressed. 
Lega’s leader and Italy’s Deputy Prime Minister and Interior Minister Matteo Salvini, who is known for his positive attitudes to Russia, earlier denied BuzzFeed’s allegations point-blank and authorized his lawyers to defend the party against the allegations of receiving financing from Russia. 
Milan’s prosecution authority has launched an international corruption probe into BuzzFeed’s and L’Espresso’s (an Italian news weekly) reports. The key suspect in the case is Gianluca Savoini, Salvini’s close associate and president of the Lombardy-Russia Association, whose voice is allegedly heard in BuzzFeed’s audio record featuring talks with Russian businessmen allegedly close to the Kremlin, who discussed a possible oil purchase deal promising 65-million-euro dividends to the party. 
Russia regrets Ukraine's decision to deny registration to Russian election observers — CEC 
Ukraine repeatedly stressed that it will not allow Russian observers at the parliamentary election 
Deputy Chairman of the Russian Central Election Commission Nikolay Bulayev 
MOSCOW, July 12. /TASS/. Moscow expresses regret that Russian observers were denied registration to the parliamentary election in Ukraine, deputy head of the Russian Central Election Commission Nikolay Bulayev said on Friday. 
We expected this but we still had hope that a different decision may be made in the new conditions which could signify a change in politics and bilateral relations. It is regrettable that this did not happen, Bulayev told TASS. 
We are always open, and we are preparing to hold an international scientitific-practical conference ahead of the Election Day [September 8]. We are sending invitations to everyone, and everyone is responding. Lack of openness never leads to anything good, Bulayev noted. 
Russia's Central Election Commission has recommended to the Russian Foreign Ministry observers to the Verkhovna Rada election in Ukraine. Ukraine's Central Election Commission in turn has refused to register 17 Russian observers who were part of the mission from the OSCE Office of Democratic Institutions and Human Rights. 
Ukraine repeatedly stressed that it will not allow Russian observers at the parliamentary election. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that refusal to register observers with Russian citizenship approved by the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) is illegitimate. 
Another batch of S-400 components delivered to Turkey 
Earlier, the Turkish Ministry of National Defense reported that the fifth, sixth and seventh planes with S-400 components had landed at Murted Air Base in the Ankara province 
MOSCOW, July 14. /TASS/. Russian military transport aircraft have delivered another batch of components for S-400 missile systems to Turkey, the Russian Defense Ministry said in a statement on Sunday. 
On July 14, 2019, the Russian Defense Ministry’s military transport aircraft delivered another batch of components for S-400 air defense systems as part of contractual obligations, the ministry said. 
According to the Defense Ministry, the delivery is carried out in strict compliance with the contract that had been signed with Turkey and the deadlines agreed on by the parties. 
Earlier on Sunday, the Turkish Ministry of National Defense reported that the fifth, sixth and seventh planes with S-400 components had landed at Murted Air Base in the Ankara province. Deliveries of Russia’s S-400 missile systems to Turkey began on July 12. 
S-400 deal 
The first reports about the talks between Russia and Turkey on the deliveries of S-400 air defense missile systems emerged in November 2016. Russia confirmed in September 2017 that the relevant contract had been signed. Turkish Defense Minister Hulusi Akar earlier said that the deployment of S-400 surface-to-air missile systems could begin in October 2019. 
CEO of Russia’s state hi-tech corporation Rostec Sergei Chemezov said in December 2017 that the S-400 deal was worth $2.5 bln. 
Washington earlier warned that it might deny Turkey the purchase of F-35 fighter-bombers, if Ankara pressed ahead with the S-400 deal. 
The S-400 ‘Triumf’ is the most advanced long-range air defense missile system that went into service in Russia in 2007. It is designed to destroy aircraft, cruise and ballistic missiles, including medium-range missiles, and can also be used against ground installations. The S-400 can engage targets at a distance of 400 km and at an altitude of up to 30 km. 
Senior German diplomat says unacceptable to violate Iran nuclear deal 
The European Union should prioritize dialogue and de-escalation, according to the high-ranking official 
German Minister of State for European Affairs Michael Roth 
BRUSSELS, July 15. /TASS/. Violating the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) on Iran’s nuclear program is unacceptable, German Minister of State for Europe Michael Roth told reporters upon arrival for a meeting of the EU Foreign Affairs Council in Brussels on Monday. 
Violating the nuclear agreement is completely unacceptable for us, he said. As the European Union, we should speak with one voice on the matter, Roth added. 
It is important for us to maintain dialogue and contribute to de-escalation, the German minister pointed out. The European Union has a special responsibility in this regard. It is in our national interest, as well as in the interest of the EU, to prevent further destabilization in the region, Roth emphasized. 
Iran nuclear deal issue 
In 2015, Iran and six major powers (five member states of the United Nations Security Council — Russia, the United States, France, the United Kingdom, China and Germany) agreed on the final Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, which particularly stipulated the removal of sanctions imposed on Tehran over its nuclear program. 
On May 8, 2018, US President Donald Trump announced Washington’s withdrawal from the Iran nuclear deal. He said that old sanctions on Iran would be restored and new ones would be introduced in case Tehran attempted to pursue its nuclear ambitions. The first batch of new US sanctions on Iran took effect on August 7 and the second batch became effective on November 5. In contrast, Great Britain, Germany and France called on other participants in the deal to continue its execution. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that Moscow would seek to maintain the agreement. 
On May 8, 2019, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani pledged that Tehran was reducing its commitments under the JCPOA. He pointed out that the other signatories, primarily EU countries, had failed to fulfill their economic obligations under the deal, making it irrelevant. Rouhani said they had two months to return to compliance. The deadline expired on July 7. On July 8, Spokesman for the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran Behrouz Kamalvandi claimed that Tehran had exceeded the uranium enrichment level of 4.5%. 
2018 Global Fashion Industry Index - Fashion Week Vitality Index unveiled in Shanghai 
SHANGHAI, July 13, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- The 2018 Global Fashion Industry Index - Fashion Week Vitality Index was unveiled Wednesday jointly by China Economic Information Service (CEIS) of Xinhua News Agency and Orient International (Holding) Co., Ltd. in east China's Shanghai. 
Paris Fashion Week, New York Fashion Week, London Fashion Week, Milan Fashion Week, Shanghai Fashion Week, China Fashion Week, Tokyo Fashion Week, Seoul Fashion Week, Russia Fashion Week and Mumbai Fashion Week were the top ten fashion weeks in 2018, said the index report. 
The rankings of Shanghai Fashion Week and China Fashion Week, two representatives of China's fashion weeks, both moved forward one spot, respectively to the fifth and the sixth, compared with the previous rankings, showcasing the rapid development of the fashion industry in China. 
First released in March 2018, the Global Fashion Industry Index - Fashion Week Vitality Index aims at delivering the voice of China to the global fashion industry through quantitative analysis. 
It constitutes evaluation models from media transmission, business circle radiation and factor aggregation, and contains three primary indicators and ten secondary indicators which can help evaluate the vitality value of global fashion weeks objectively and comprehensively. 
According to Cao Wenzhong, vice president of CEIS, an analysis of social media's influence on fashion weeks was added to the 2018 index which further studied the interactive impacts of global fashion week trends and gave more attention to the reference value of industry participants such as designers and brand owners, so as to make the index more scientific and influential. 
The 2018 index report selected six major fashion weeks in Shanghai, Beijing, Shenzhen, Dalian, Xiamen and Wuhan to deeply learn the driving influence exerted by fashion weeks on consumption in China, and the results showed that all the fashion weeks have driven the consumption in related business districts. 
The increasing participating brands home and abroad and fashion releases have driven major fashion weeks in China develop into diversified service platforms which helped host cities to play an influential role in industrial value chains such as fashion production and design, said the report. 
Meanwhile, the connection between offline fashion products and online e-commerce platforms has opened a new era of fashion consumption for consumers, the report also said. 
Russian national volleyball team’s ex-player gets 18-month ban over cocaine use 
MOSCOW, July 16. /TASS/. Pavel Moroz, a former player of the Russian national volleyball team, has been slapped with an 18-month suspension over violations of anti-doping rules, the press office of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA) announced on Tuesday. 
The suspension term of the 32-year-old athlete, who played for the Russian national volleyball team between 2012 and 2015, enters into force on November 12, 2018. 
Pavel Moroz has been disqualified for 18 months for violating provision 2.1 of the All-Russia Anti-Doping Rules and the decision comes into force starting November 12, 2018, RUSADA stated in a press release. 
The penalty is imposed over the consumption of stimulators, which do not belong to special S6a medications, the statement continued. The doping sample of the athlete tested positive for banned substance cocaine. 
The news of Moroz’s suspension were reported earlier in the day to TASS by athlete’s agent Dmitry Rezvanov, who also stated that the 18-month disqualification of the volleyball player officially starts on November 12 last year. 
Besides playing 22 matches for the Russian national team in 2012-2015, Moroz also played for Russian volleyball clubs Kuzbass Novosibirsk (2010-2013); Ural (2016-2017); Fakel (2017-2018); Dinamo-LO (2018) and for South Korea’s club Incheon Air Jumbos (2015-2016). 
Moroz is the silver medal winner of the 2013-2014 Russian Volleyball Championship, and two-time vice champion of the Russia Cup (2011 and 2014). 
The Russian Anti-Doping Agency added in its statement on Tuesday that it imposed suspensions against other Russian athletes for violations of anti-doping regulations - namely against cycling racer Tatyana Panina, 49, (6-month disqualification), cross-country skier Sergei Korsakov (4-year disqualification) and Pavel Metelev, 18, from the Russian basketball club Yenisei Krasnoyarsk (3-month disqualification). 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel celebrates her 65th birthday 
Russian President Vladimir Putin greeting German Chancellor Angela Merkel during their meeting in Sochi, Russia, 2018 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel and US President Donald Trump meeting in the Oval Office of the White House in Washington, 2018 
French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Angela Merkel in the courtyard of the Elysee Palace in Paris, 2018 
German chancellor Angela Merkel speaks with former US president Barack Obama at Schloss Elmau hotel near Garmisch-Partenkirchen during the G-7 summit, Germany, 2015 
Angela Merkel gets to know the robot Asimo (Advanced Step in Innovative Mobility) at the Miraikan Museum of Emerging Science and Innovation in Daiba, Tokyo, Japan, 2015 
Angela Merkel holding a tablet computer during the beginning of the weekly meeting of the German Federal cabinet at the Chancellery in Berlin, Germany, 2018 
Angela Merkel being presented with an honorary Doctor of Laws degree during Harvard University commencement exercises in Cambridge, 2019 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel arriving for the opening of the James-Simon-Galerie in Berlin, 2019 
Angela Merkel looking at her watch before the arrival of the Prime Minister of Spain Pedro Sanchez at the chancellery in Berlin, 2018 
German Chancellor Angela Merkel celebrates her 65th birthday on July 17. Angela Markel is one of Europe's longest-serving leaders. She was elected as Germany's chancellor in 2005 and serving the nation since then. Markel has topped Forbes' list of the 100 most powerful woman in the world eight times in a row. 
Russia hopes indefinite ceasefire in Donbass to be observed — OSCE envoy 
The Contact Group agreed the terms of an indefinite ceasefire in Donbass from July 21 
VIENNA, July 18. /TASS/. Russia hails a ceasefire in Donbass due to come into effect from July 21, Russia’s Permanent Representative to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Alexander lukashevich said on Thursday. 
We hail the ‘harvest ceasefire’ to come into effect from 00:01 on July 21. We hope it will be observed, he said at a meeting of the OSCE Permanent Council. To ensure a lasting ceasefire it is necessary to implement the additional measures in its support that were agreed by the Contact Group on July 17. Among other things, it is necessary to publish the ceasefire orders, to impose disciplinary responsibility for their violation, to ban deployment of weapons in dwelling quarters and in the vicinity of civil infrastructure facilities, to outlaw subversive and sniper activities and so on. 
OSCE Special Representative Martin Sajdik said on July 17 that the Contact Group had agreed the terms of an indefinite ceasefire in Donbass from July 21. According to Sajdik, the Contact Group emphasized it was necessary to refuse from conducting any offensives along with reconnaissance and sabotage operations, from using any weapons, including sniper fire, from deploying heavy weapons in the civil infrastructure facilities, including schools, kindergartens, hospitals and public facilities. 
OSCE Chairperson-in Office and Slovakia’s Foreign Minister Miroslav Lajcak welcomed the indefinite ceasefire in Donbass and said it would give a chance for peace settlement of the conflict. 
US, Turkish top diplomats discuss deliveries of Russia’s S-400 missile defense systems 
This is the first contact between the US and Turkey after the start of the deliveries of Russian S-400 missile defense to the republic 
ANKARA, July 20. /TASS/. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu and US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo have held talks over the phone regarding the situation around Russia’s S-400 missile defense systems and US F-35 fighter jets, a source at the Turkish Foreign Ministry informed reporters on Saturday. 
The sides have discussed the situation around [the deliveries of Russian missile defense systems] S-400 and [US fighter jets] F-35, as well as the situation in Syria’s Manbij and Idlib and the creation of a safety zone in Syria, the source noted. 
This is the first contact between the US and Turkey after the start of the deliveries of Russian S-400 missile defense to Turkey and Washington’s statement on the exclusion of Turkey from the F-35 fighter jet program. 
The S-400 contract 
The news about the Russian-Turkish talks on the purchase of S-400 systems first came in November 2016. The Russian side confirmed that the contract had been signed on September 12, 2017. Concurrently, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan announced that Ankara had made an advance payment. Turkey is going to become the first NATO member state to purchase an air defense weapon of this class from Russia. 
US officials warn that Turkey’s contract to purchase S-400 missile systems from Russia will severely damage bilateral relations and lead to unilateral US sanctions against Ankara. 
Earlier, the Pentagon informed that in order to remain in the F-35 fighter jet program, Turkey needs to drop the purchase of Russia’s S-400 missile defense systems. 
The White House said in a statement on Wednesday that Turkey’s decision to purchase Russian S-400 air defense systems renders its continued involvement with the F-35 impossible. However, Washington pointed out that it will continue to cooperate with Turkey extensively, mindful of constraints due to the presence of the S-400 system in Turkey. The Turkish Foreign Ministry called on the United States on Thursday to reconsider this decision, which may deal irreparable harm to bilateral relations.. 
Soyuz-FG rocket launches with Soyuz MS-13 manned spacecraft from Baikonur 
The rocket will fly to the ISS in accordance with the six-hour plan, which means four spins around the globe 
BAIKONUR COSMODROME /Kazakhstan/, July 20. /TASS/. Soyuz-FG medium-lift launch vehicle with the Soyuz MS-13 manned spacecraft launched from Baikonur Cosmodrome, TASS reported from the scene. 
The rocket blasted off from Launch Pad No.1 (the same pad Yuri Gagarin used on humanity’s first space flight in 1961) at 19.28 Moscow Time. Roscosmos cosmonaut Alexander Skvortsov, astronauts Luca Parmitano of the European Space Agency and Drew Morgan of NASA headed to the International Space Station (ISS). 
The spacecraft did separate in a scheduled mode, the Roscosmos representative said. 
According to telemetry information, the spacecraft’s solar panels are open. External arrays fully deployed, said the commentator at the Mission Control Center. 
According to telemetry, parameters of the spacecraft’s orbit are as it was planned. 
The rocket will fly to the ISS in accordance with the six-hour plan, which means four spins around the globe. The spacecraft is scheduled to dock to the ISS at 01.50 Moscow Time on Sunday. 
The new crew will be working aboard the ISS for 201 days. During the space expedition, first astronaut of the United Arab Emirates Hazza al-Mansouri will travel to the orbital outpost where he will stay for about a week, after which he will return to Earth together with the crew of the Soyuz MS-12 spacecraft. Currently, Russian cosmonaut Alexei Ovchinin and NASA astronauts Nick Hague and Christina Koch are staying on the space station. 
Overall, the ISS-60/61 expedition crewmembers are set to carry out almost 50 applied research experiments, five of which will be conducted in an autonomous mode, without the crew’s participation. 
The cosmonauts and astronauts will also handle Progress MS resupply ships and a Soyuz MS-14 spacecraft that will be launched in its crewless version, and also the android robot Fedor. 
Polish police recover body of five-year-old Russian boy 
The boy went missing on July 10 after his father had taken the boy away in his car earlier in the evening 
WARSAW, July 20. /TASS/. A Russian five-year-old boy called David, who had gone missing after his father’s death, was found dead, Poland’s police said on Saturday. 
We can state with certainty that we have found the body of five-year-old David, Warsaw police spokesman Mariusz Mrozek said adding the clothes he was last seen wearing could prove his identity. 
The boy went missing on July 10. His father had taken the boy away in his car earlier in the evening. When they did not turn up late at night, the mother called the police. The father’s body was found on rail tracks. He was run over by a train. 
Investigators assumed that the man committed suicide. His car was spotted at a car park, three kilometers from the scene. The boy was not seen nearby. 
A police search operation involved sniffer dogs, a helicopter and drones. Troops, firefighters and volunteers joined the search as well. Local media broadcast the boy’s photo asking for any information, which might help in the search, to be reported to police. 
It was said that the family relations were strained recently and the parents lived separately. The boy’s mother was said to have reported domestic violence to the police. Media leaked a message sent by the husband to his estranged wife shortly before his death. It was a threat that she would never see her son again. 
Passenger plane bound for Prague returns to Moscow due to fire in baggage hold - source 
There were 187 people aboard the plane 
MOSCOW, July 21. /TASS/. A passenger plane bound from Moscow for Prague returned to Moscow’s Vnukovo airport because of a fire in the baggage hold, a source in emergencies services told TASS on Sunday. 
A Boeing-737 of Rossiya Airlines en route from Moscow to Prague returned to the departure airport due to a fire in the baggage hold. The plane landed safely, no one was hurt, the source said. 
There were 187 people aboard the plane. The passenger will fly to Prague by another plane. 
A source at the Vnukovo airport told TASS that the plane’s pilots decide to return to the airport after a fire sensor had activated when the plane was in midair. 
Meanwhile, the plane’s crew said there had been no smoke onboard. A fire alarm went off in the baggage hold when the plane (flight 5739) had taken off. The pilot took a decision to return to the departure airport for safety considerations. The flight attendants found no signs of smoke or fire while landing, a spokesman for Rossiya Airlines told TASS. 
Servant of People candidates win in 118 single-member districts in Ukrainian election 
A total of 199 candidates will be elected in single-member districts, while 225 more candidates will be elected on party lists 
KIEV, July 22. /TASS/. Candidates from Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky's Servant of People party won in 118 single-member districts out of 199 at the snap parliamentary election after 22% of ballots were counted, the Central Election Commission (CEC) said on Monday. 
Candidates from the Opposition Platform For Life won in nine districts. Candidates from Batkivschina and Voice won in two districts each. Candidates from European Solidarity won in three districts. In the remaining districts, either independent candidates or candidates from parties that have not overcome the five-percent threshold won. 
A total of 199 candidates will be elected in single-member districts, while 225 more candidates will be elected on party lists. According to exit polls, the Servant of People party will get up to 127 seats in the parliament, Opposition Platform for Life - 33-35 seats, European Solidarity - 25 seats, Batkivschina - 21-23 seats, and Voice - 19 seats. 
Bill on email users’ identification introduced to State Duma 
Russian Human Rights Ombudswoman Tatiana Moskalkova said the bill requires careful work 
The State Duma (lower house of the Russian parliament) 
MOSCOW, July 23. /TASS/. The draft law stipulating email use by duly identified users only was submitted to the State Duma on Tuesday. Relevant information is contained in the electronic database of the lower house of the Russian parliament. 
The draft law determines the notion of the email service organizer and vests in him the responsibility to ensure transmission of emails of only those Internet users that are identified in the manner set forth by the Russian government. Email users are suggested to be identified by the subscriber number on the basis of the identification agreement to be concluded by the email service organizer with the communications operator, the explanatory note to the draft law reads. 
In addition to identification responsibilities, email service organizers are to enable the users to reject emails and limit distributions and transmissions of messages containing information disseminated with violation to the Russian laws. 
Approval of such a draft law will make it possible to significantly reduce the number of false terrorist messages spread via email, create legal conditions for bringing abusers to liability and decrease economic damages from such messages, the bill's initiators explain. 
Vice President of the Russian Internet company, Mail.ru Group Vladimir Gabrielyan disapproved of the initiative in an interview with TASS. According to him, if approved the bill on compulsory identification of email users by the phone number will discriminate Russian companies on the domestic market. The draft law is inappropriate and superfluous. It entails considerable inconveniencies for users and discriminates Russian market players. Domestic companies will sustain extra costs, while foreign players repeatedly ignored requirements of Russian laws. We do not see preconditions for any changes in this practice by proposed new developments, the top manager noted. 
Google, Yandex, Rambler Group, MTS and Vimpelcom refrained from comment. MegaFon told TASS that it is ready to perform such identification but the initiative should not discriminate Russian email services obliged to perform all the requirements for the organizers, compared to foreign ones. This initiative is similar to regulations earlier introduced for messengers and its feasibility depends on readiness of foreign email services to cooperate with the mobile operator, Tele2 told TASS. 
Meanwhile, Russian Human Rights Ombudswoman Tatiana Moskalkova told reporters the bill on identification requires careful work. 
The draft law requires detailed consideration. It is critical that notions of ‘information harmfulness,’ ‘violations,’ etc., are spelled out in detail in this document, she said. The Internet should not be put into a rigid framework and the society should not be deprived of the opportunity of implementing the right to freedom of speech, opinion, and information exchange, Moskalkova added. 
The mechanism of limiting transmission of prohibited information in the bill can be interpreted as violation of the constitutional right of citizens to privacy of correspondence, Chairman of the State Duma Committee on Information Policy, Information Technologies and Communication Leonid Levin said in a comment. 
Authors speak in the explanatory note about importance of proposed measures to counter spread of deliberately false threats of committing terrorist acts, coming to email addresses of government agencies and social or transport infrastructural facilities, Levin said, cited by his press service. At the same time, the mechanism of limiting transmission of prohibited information identified in the draft law does not provide for the need of lawfulness of actions of the authorized agency and can be interpreted as the arbitrary extrajudicial limiting of the citizens’ right to privacy of correspondence established by the Constitution, the MP said. 
A similar opinion was expressed by the Committee Member Anton Gorelkin. The norm of user identification by the phone number bumps up against Internet openness, he said. 
The draft law does not breach the privacy of correspondence, says Andrei Klishas, the Chairman of the Constitutional Legislation Committee of the Federation Council and one of bill developers. 
The bill on identification of users of email services does not breach constitutional rights, including the right to privacy of correspondence. Amendments contain the mechanism similar to regulation stipulated by earlier approved law on messengers and SIM-cards, Klishas told TASS. 
About 30,000 DPR and LPR residents apply for Russian passports 
A decree simplifying citizenship granting procedures for people living in the Donetsk and Lugansk People’s Republics was signed by Russian President Vladimir Putin on April 24, 2019 
ROSTOV-ON-DON, July 23. /TASS/. About 30,000 people living in the self-proclaimed Donetsk and Lugansk People’s Republics (DPR and LPR) have applied for Russian citizenship under a simplified procedure, governor of Russia’s southern Rostov region Vasily Golubev said on Tuesday. 
By now, passports have been issued to about 7,000 people. Some 30,000 more have appled for Russian passports, he said. 
The Russian interior ministry in June opened two first specialized migration departments in the Rostov region to issue Russian passports to people living in the DPR and LPR under the simplified procedure. Two more such departments were opened in July and another four passport issuing centers are to be launched by the autumn. 
Viktor Vodolatsky, a chairman of the committee for the CIS affairs, Eurasian integration and relations with compatriots of the Russian State Duma lower parliament house, told TASS earlier that more than 10,000 DPR and LPR residents had received Russian passports over the past month. 
A decree simplifying citizenship granting procedures for people living in the Donetsk and Lugansk People’s Republics was signed by Russian President Vladimir Putin on April 24, 2019. On July 17, 2019, the president issued a decree extending these procedures onto other categories of Ukrainian citizens. 
Russia kicks off delivery of 2nd S-400 regiment set to China by sea, says source 
The delivery of the entire regiment set to China envisages involving no less than three vessels that will take to the sea one by one within short time intervals 
MOSCOW, July 24. /TASS/. Russia has launched an operation to deliver the 2nd regiment set of S-400 surface-to-air missile systems to China by sea, a source in military and diplomatic circles told TASS on Wednesday. 
A transport vessel with the first batch of hardware from the second S-400 regiment set for China has taken to the sea from the port of Ust-Luga on the Baltic coast. Therefore, like in the case with Turkey, the deliveries of the systems have started several months ahead of the term stipulated in the contract, the source said. 
The delivery of the entire S-400 regiment set to China envisages involving no less than three vessels that will take to the sea one by one within short time intervals, the source added. 
Russia’s Federal Service for Military and Technical Cooperation declined to comment for TASS on the information provided by the source. 
China became the first foreign buyer of Russia’s most advanced S-400 ‘Triumf’ surface-to-air missile systems. Russia signed a contract with China on the delivery of two regiment sets of S-400 air defense missile systems in 2014. 
The first regiment set of S-400 anti-aircraft missile systems was delivered to China in the spring of 2018. The Chinese military successfully test-fired the missile launchers from the first S-400 regiment set, striking an aerodynamic and a ballistic target at its firing ranges. 
What Solzhenitsyn said about Putin, and vice versa 
The prominent writer and historian, who was exiled to GULAG camp, was born on December 11, 1918 
Natalia Solzhenitsyna, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin and Russia's President Vladimir Putin 
MOSCOW, July 24. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin will visit the House of Russia Abroad on July 24, 2019. Solzhenitsyn’s widow, Natalia, who is President of the Solzhenitsyn Charity Foundation, will show the head of state around the Museum of Russia Abroad. 
Here are some quotes of what Solzhenitsyn said about Putin: 
The president knows only too well what incredible difficulties, both domestic and external, he has inherited and which are to be avoided today. I would like to praise the prudence and soundness of his decisions and judgements. At large, he has a quick mind and agile wit and has no lust for personal power, no thrill of power. <…> He really works hard. Hard because the tasks are extremely hard to accomplish. (interview with the Russian television dated September 21, 2000). 
Reverse efforts to save the country’s lost statehood began to be taken under Putin. Some of these attempts however looked rather face-lifting but later they became more rigorous. The foreign policy, bearing in mind our situation and possibilities, is quite reasonable and more foresighted. But in terms of what has been inherited from the predecessors, much is still in shambles. The general situation people are living in is still hard and chaotic. (interview with the Moskovskiye Novosti newspaper dated April 28, 2006). 
Yes, Vladimir Putin used to be a security officer but he was neither a KGB investigator, nor a GULAG camp chief. Notably, international, so to say, external services are dispraised in no country, on the contrary, they are often praised. No one ever upbraided George Bush Sr. for his being CIA director in the past. (interview with Der Spiegel of July 2007). 
Here are some quotes of what Putin said about Solzhenitsyn: 
He [Solzhenitsyn] is a man who loves Russian history and relies on it while analyzing present-day developments and looking into in the country’s future. I think it is very important. (interview with Poland’s Gazeta Wyborcza and TVP television channel dated January 15, 2002). 
We are proud that Alexander Isayevich Solzhenitsyn was our compatriot and contemporary. We will retain memories of him as a strong, courageous man with a profound sense of dignity. His works as a writer and public activities will serve as an example of selfless devotion to people, to the Fatherland, to the ideals of freedom, justice and humanism. (official message of condolences to Alexander Solzhenitsyn’s family over his death on August 5, 2008). 
He was a man who, together with the nation, lived through a great tragedy and purges. Solzhenitsyn’s life and work could be seen as an inoculation of society against any types of tyranny. (speech at a meeting with Minister of Education and Science Andrei Fursenko on August 5, 2008). 
I remember well all my contacts with Alexander Isayevich, his wisdom, foresight and a wide gasp of history. His heart, soul and thought were filled with pain for the Fatherland and unfailing love for it. These feelings were a driving force of his creative endeavor. He clearly distinguished authentic, real, people’s Russia and the totalitarian system that plunged millions of people into sufferings and hard trials. But even in exile, Alexander Isayevich never let anyone speak disparagingly and spitefully about his Motherland, rebuffing any manifestations of Russophobia. (speech at the opening ceremony of Alexander Solzhenitsyn monument in Moscow on December 11, 2018). 
Wood bison to be listed in Yakutia’s Red Data Book 
YAKUTSK, July 24. /TASS/. Wood bison, which have been brought to Yakutia since 2006, will be listed in the republic's Red Data Book to preserve the species and to protect them from poachers. The local government took the decision at a meeting on Tuesday. 
The purpose of including wood bison in Yakutia’s Red Data Book is to help conserve the species and expand their number, the republic’s ecology minister, Sakhamin Afanasyev, told the meeting participants. As the first batch of wood bison has been released into the wild, we face the task to protect free-living animals from poaching. While the animals are safe within the Sinyaya (Blue) Nature Park, outside it bison are at risk. Therefore, they should be put on the regional list of rare and endangered species. 
The first wood bison arrived in Yakutia from Canada in 2006, the official continued. 
Presently, 212 bison live in Yakutia, whereas 122 have been born here, he said. Revival of the wood bison will add to Yakutia’s biodiversity and will expand the natural resource base for the local population. If wood bison breeding in Yakutia proves successful, this might pave the way for their breeding in Russia’s north-eastern regions, he added. 
The minister did not rule out that in future bison could be used in agriculture, including in areas unsuitable for animal husbandry. However, that may be possible if the bison population grows to 2-3 thousand species. 
Yakutia’s authorities claim protection of wild animals should be a part of the national project Ecology. 
Russia’s national project Ecology is planned for 2019-2024. The government will invest more than 4 trillion rubles ($63 billion) in it. 
Diamonds, tourism, Northern Sea Route: what Far East has in store for Indian investors 
This year, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will become the key guest at the Eastern Economic Forum 
MOSCOW, July 25. /TASS/. Tourism, mining industry, diamond cutting, cooperation in military sector - these are the areas in which the regions of Russia’s Far East are going to present options for cooperation to Indian investors at the upcoming Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) in September. 
Government officials and experts told TASS about the growing interest in bilateral cooperation, the current state and prospects of projects involving Indian investments. 
This year, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi, will become the key guest at the EEF. Recently, Russian President Vladimir Putin invited him to attend the event. 
Currently, preparations are underway for the signing the Program for the development of Russian-Indian cooperation in the trade, economy and investments in the Far East of the Russian Federation for 2020-2026. The program will set the guidelines for the development of Russian-Indian cooperation in the Far East in priority sectors (coal mining, diamond cutting, energy, agriculture, logging and tourism.) We believe that in future cooperation with representatives of the Republic of India can be expanded and include projects in the Arctic region, in terms of increasing the volume of supplies and the joint development of the Northern Sea Route, a representative with Ministry for Development of Russian Far East told TASS. 
Earlier, co-chairman of the Russian-Indian intergovernmental commission on trade, economic, scientific, technical and cultural cooperation, Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov, told reporters that at the EEF Russia and India were going to sign a strategic agreement to give a new impetus to the relations between the two countries, which will allow to increase trade to $30 bln from current $11 bln by 2025. 
Indian projects in the Far East 
Cooperation between Russia’s Far Eastern regions and India is mainly related to mining. We mainly supply fuel and energy products to India. This is coal - 70% of the total value of regional exports to India, as well as oil products, Viktor Kalashnikov, Deputy Chairman of the Khabarovsk region’s government, told TASS. 
He added that on the sidelines of the EEF the parties plan to discuss the possibility of exporting products of aircraft and shipbuilding, power engineering, woodworking. In addition, Khabarovsk enterprises are ready to supply products from ferrous and non-ferrous metals to India, as well as fish and seafood, and peat-based fertilizers. 
The authorities of the Kamchatka region hope that investors from India will participate in their project for the extraction of coal on the peninsula. In 2017, an agreement of intent was signed for the implementation of a coal mining project with India’s Tata Power. 
The forecast volume of investments is 36 billion rubles ($57 mln), an official with the regional government told TASS. 
The project envisages the creation of a coal mining enterprise at the Krutogorovsky deposit. Its implementation will allow producing up to 8 million tonnes of coal per year in Kamchatka, will create more than 2,000 new jobs. The press service clarified that a draft agreement is being prepared on the further implementation of the project. It will be considered on the margins of the EEF. 
The 5th Eastern Economic Forum will be held on the Russky Island in Vladivostok, Russia’s Far East, on September 4-6, 2019. This year, the main topic on the agenda will be economic and social indicators of growth in the Far East, as well as issues quality of life improvement in the macroregion. The program will also include intercountry business dialogues with India, China, Japan, the Republic of Korea and the Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 
EU’s Juncker tells UK’s Johnson EU not going to revisit achieved deal on Brexit 
The EU is ready to cooperate with the UK to change the political declaration on future relations 
LONDON, July 25. /TASS/. The European Union is not going to revisit the agreement on the terms of Brexit reached by Theresa May’s government, TV channel Sky News reported on Thursday, disclosing the details of the telephone conversation between President of the European Commission Jean-Claude Juncker and new UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson. 
According to the statement that the TV channel has at its disposal, Juncker confirmed the EU’s position that the withdrawal deal is the best and only agreement possible, noting that the EU is ready to cooperate with the UK to change the political declaration on future relations. 
The president of the European Commission also congratulated Johnson on his accession as the British prime minister. The two exchanged mobile phone numbers and agreed to remain in touch. President Juncker reiterated that the Commission remains available over the coming weeks should the United Kingdom wish to hold talks and clarify its position in more detail, the statement reads. 
US advises Turkey against putting Russia’s S-400 air defense systems into operation 
Russia completed on Thursday the first stage of S-400 deliveries to Turkey 
NEW YORK, July 26. /TASS/. The United States has informed Turkey that it was inadmissible to put into operation S-400 ‘Triumf’ surface-to-air missile systems, purchased from Russia, and sanctions from Washington against Ankara may follow over this issue, Bloomberg news agency reported citing US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo. 
Russia completed on Thursday the first stage of S-400 deliveries to Turkey. According to Head of Russia’s state arms seller Rosoboronexport Alexander Mikheyev, Russian transport aircraft carried out 30 special flights to deliver S-400 parts to Turkey. 
Both the Turkish side and Russia’s Federal Service for Military and Technical Cooperation confirmed on July 25 that the first stage of S-400 deliveries had been concluded. 
US Secretary of State Pompeo declined to confirm earlier statements made by Republican Senator Lindsay Graham that the United States would not be imposing new sanctions against Ankara in case Turkey decides against activating Russia’s S-400 systems. 
I am not going to talk about internal deliberations, Pompeo said in an interview with Bloomberg. We are all working together to do our best. We made clear to the Turks that the activation of the S-400 is unacceptable. 
We have already taken an action of curtailing the F-35 [fighter-bombers] program that was an important part of what Turkey was doing, he said. There could be more sanctions to follow but frankly what we’d really like is for the S-400 not to become operational. 
That’s our objective and that’s what we had been talking about with the Turks for months, he continued. We have told them that it is simply incompatible with the F-35. They have taken delivery of some of the components today and we are urging them to reconsider that decision. 
The first reports about the talks between Russia and Turkey on the deliveries of S-400 air defense missile systems emerged in November 2016. Russia confirmed in September 2017 that the relevant contract worth $2.5 billion had been signed. Under the contract, Ankara will get a regiment set of S-400 air defense missile systems (two battalions). The deal also envisages partial transfer of production technology to the Turkish side. 
Turkey is the first NATO member state to purchase such air-defense missile systems from Russia. The deliveries of S-400 air defense systems to Turkey began on July 12, 2019. 
The United States and NATO have been making attempts to prevent Turkey from purchasing Russia's S-400 missile systems. Washington has warned on many occasions that it may impose sanctions on Turkey, if Ankara presses ahead with the S-400 deal. 
On July 17, the press secretary of the US White House said in a statement that Turkey’s decision to acquire Russian-made S-400 air defense missile systems rendered Ankara’s further participation in the US program of creating F-35 fighter-bombers impossible. 
The S-400 ‘Triumf’ is the most advanced long-range air defense missile system that went into service in Russia in 2007. It is designed to destroy aircraft, cruise and ballistic missiles, including medium-range missiles, and can also be used against ground installations. The S-400 can engage targets at a distance of 400 km and at an altitude of up to 30 km. 
MOSCOW, July 26. /TASS/. The American visa for Russian tennis player Svetlana Kuznetsova is ready, Spokesperson at the US Embassy in Moscow Andrea Kalan wrote on her official Twitter page on Friday. 
We’ve seen press reports about tennis player Svetlana Kuznetsova and her visa concerns. We have reached out to her directly to make sure she can travel and compete, but no answer. If you’re reading this, Svetlana, give us a call — your visa is waiting for you! she wrote. 
Yesterday, Kuznetsova announced that she had been forced to withdraw from the WTA tournament in Washington due to issues with her US visa. The tournament will run from July 29 through August 4, last year the Russian won the title. The tennis player earlier pointed out that she had been waiting for her visa to be ready since February. 
Earlier, the Russian Embassy in the US sent a note of protest to the Department of State, demanding that they cease the discriminatory policy of refusing visas to Russian participants in international events. 
Surinamese business delegation to visit Russia - Lavrov 
The minister noted that the parties also stated good opportunities for strengthening cooperation in education 
PARAMARIBO, July 27. /TASS/. Russia and Suriname will prepare a visit of a delegation of Surinamese businessmen and government officials to Russia, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said on Saturday after talks with Foreign Minister of Suriname Yldiz Deborah Pollack-Beighle. 
According to Lavrov, at the meeting with his Surinamese counterpart they have considered the prospects for trade, economic, investment, cultural and humanitarian cooperation. 
In particular, at the meeting with the Vice-President [of Suriname Michael Ashwin Adhin], which was also attended by the ministers of trade and tourism, education, justice, natural resources and defense, specific proposals were made on how to move forward in the relevant areas. We will work on these proposal presenting them to the relevant departments in Moscow and I hope that we will prepare a fruitful, productive visit for the delegation of the business circles of Suriname, as well as representatives of the relevant departments in the Russian Federation for contacts with their colleagues under the auspices of the Russian Chamber of Commerce, the top diplomat said. 
The minister noted that the parties also stated good opportunities for strengthening cooperation in education. 
We have agreed to increase the number of scholarships available to Surinamese young people to study at Russian universities, he said. 
Russian vessel Xiang Hai Lin 8 detained in North Korea released 
A crewmember told TASS that the vessel was released without any fines, the incident is over 
TASS, July 28. The Russian fishing boat Xiang Hai Lin 8 detained by North Korean border patrol officers has been released on Saturday, the Russian embassy in Pyongyang reported on it official Facebook page on Sunday. 
On July 27, the coordinated work of the Russian diplomatic agency led to a release of the fishing boat Xiang Hai Lin 8. At 16:00 local time, captain Verevka was informed by the North Korean side about the release. At 19:30, the vessel left the Wonsan port’s pier and headed to Sokcho (South Korea), where two South Korean crewmembers will come ashore, the diplomatic mission’s statement reads. 
A crewmember told TASS that the vessel was released without any fines, the incident is over. The full crew is aboard the ship, everyone is feeling well, he said. [The ship] is expected to arrive on Sokcho shortly. 
The Russian vessel Xiang Hai Lin 8 was detained in North Korea on July 17, when it was heading to the Sea of Japan from South Korea’s town of Sokcho to catch crab. Seventeen crewmembers were aboard the ship, 15 Russian and 2 South Korean citizens. According to the North Korean Foreign Ministry representatives, the ship was detained for violating the rules of entry and stay in North Korea. 
The ship-owner company said that the vessel entered a certain 50-mile zone the Russian was unaware about, which was cited as the reason behind the detention. Until July 27, the ship was stationed in the Wonsan port. 
The fishing boat Xiang Hai Lin 8 was built in 2015 and flies the Russian flag. The Northeastern Fishing Company owns the boat and is registered in the Island of Sakhalin. 
Ukrainian Foreign Ministry issues protest over Medvedev’s trip to Crimea 
KIEV, July 28. /TASS/. The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry has voiced protest in connection with the trip to Crimea of a Russian delegation led by Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev, the ministry’s press service said on Sunday. 
The trip comes in defiance of repeated warnings from Ukraine, it said. Earlier on Sunday, the prime minister arrived in Sevastopol to attend festivities marking Russia’s Navy Day. 
The Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol, a city with a special status on the Crimean Peninsula, where most residents are Russians, refused to recognize the legitimacy of the authorities in Kiev who seized power amid riots that sparked a coup in Ukraine in February 2014. 
Crimea and Sevastopol adopted declarations of independence on March 11, 2014. They held a referendum on March 16, 2014, in which 96.77% of Crimeans and 95.6% of Sevastopol voters chose to secede from Ukraine and join Russia. The Russian president signed the reunification deals on March 18, 2014. Despite the convincing results of the referendum, Kiev refused to recognize Crimea as part of Russia. 
280 people evacuated in Amur Region in one day due to floods 
In total, 1,356 people, including 476 children, were evacuated from the inundated communities 
BLAGOVESHCHENSK, July 29. /TASS/. About 280 people have been evacuated in one day due to floods in the Amur Region, the regional government reported on its website on Monday. 
On July 25, an emergency situation was launched in the Amur Region due to a flood caused by heavy rains. According to updated information published on the regional government’s website on Monday, 1,356 people, including 476 children, were evacuated from the inundated communities. A total of 487 people, including 173 children, are staying in temporary accommodation centers, and 869 people, including 303 children, moved to their relatives. 
Aircraft from the airbase delivered one tonne of food products, 950 liters of water and 200 liters of fuel and lubricant materials to the affected communities. Two hundred and eighty people, including 126 children, were evacuated, the report says. 
This information was voiced at a session of the commission for preventing and eliminating emergency situations which Primorsky Region Governor Vasily Orlov held on Monday. The flood situation in the region, the fight against the disaster, the residents’ evacuation and the operation of temporary accommodation centers were also discussed at the session. 
Today we worked in Svobodny and the Svobodnensky district. The main problem is people’s unwillingness to leave their premises and evacuate. Still, people understand that when water reaches the community it will be much more difficult to take them away, and aircraft will be needed, which will create additional loading <...>. We examined the temporary accommodation centers: all of them comply with the requirements, and people feel comfortable there. They also have to solve issues of providing security for cattle in villages beforehand: citizens often remain in communities because they do not want to leave the animals without attendance, the governor said, according to the statement. 
Orlov called for convincing people more actively to leave their homes and attracting police and employees of the Russian National Guard Troops Service for this purpose. Amur Region Minister of Forestry and Fire Safety Alexei Venglinsky reported about the current flood situation. Fourteen communities, 584 dwelling houses and 820 residential yards remain inundated in the region, he said. The flood crest is in the Mazanovo village area, Mazanovsky district. 
Evacuation events continue on the territory of the region. One hundred and sixty-one people were evacuated in one day to the town of Svobodny. Twenty children from Krasnoyarovo were sent to a sports camp in Svobodny, acting head of the Mazanovsky district Raisa Shafikova said, according to the statement. 
Part of federal highway temporarily closed in Irkutsk region due to floods — authorities 
According to the town administration, the water level in the Iya river has risen to 910 cm, surpassing the critical level by over two meters 
MOSCOW, July 30. /TASS/. /TASS/. Part of the R-255 Siberia federal highway has been temporarily closed near the town of Tulun in the Irkutsk region due to floods, the town administration said on Tuesday. 
At 5:30am local time on July 30, the federal highway through the bridge over the Iya river was closed, the administration said. 
The press service of the regional department of the Russian Interior Ministry reported that highway patrol officers are working on the scene. It is possible to bypass Tulun through the Bratsky district, the press service said. 
According to the town administration, the water level in the Iya river has risen to 910 cm, surpassing the critical level by over two meters. 
Floods started in the Irkutsk region at the end of June after heavy rains hit the area. Dozens of settlements were affected by the floods. The town of Tulun was hit the most, since the water level in the Iya river there rose to 14 meters, twice as much as the critical level. 
Tbilisi is in favor of preserving Abashidze-Karasin dialogue 
The Georgian diplomat mentioned the abolition of visas for Georgians as the key issue on the bilateral agenda 
TBILISI, July 30. /TASS/. The Georgian-Russian dialogue between Georgian Prime Minister's Special Representative for Relations with Russia Zurab Abashidze and Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Grigory Karasin must be preserved as it benefits both countries, Abashidze told Georgia’s Imedi television on Tuesday. 
The communication channel must be preserved. We have no diplomatic, inter-state relations with Russia. There are international Geneva negotiations [on Security and Stability in the South Caucasus — TASS], which are very important. There is also bilateral dialogue, the so-called Prague consultations, at which specific issues, such as trade and business, are discussed. We have tangible results within that framework. Products worth $1.6 bln have been exported to Russia since 2012, Abashidze said. 
Abashidze and Karasin last met in Prague on June 13. The date of the next meeting is unknown yet. Restoration of diplomatic relations and abolition of visas for Georgians, which were introduced in 2000, are top-priority issues. The Abashidze-Karasin dialogue was established in 2012 after regime change in Georgia and the advent of the coalition led by billionaire Bidzina Ivanishvili. 
Over 100 aircraft, helicopters to take part in large-scale August drills in Russia's south 
The large-scale military drills will be held in the south of Russia on August 6-16 
ROSTOV-ON-DON, July 31. /TASS/. Over 100 aircraft and helicopters will take part in large-scale military drills in the south of Russia on August 6-16, the press service of the Southern Military District told reporters on Wednesday. 
Over 100 aircraft and helicopters from the 4th army of the Air Force and Missile Defense Forces of the Southern Military District will be involved in the scheduled bilateral exercise, the press service said. 
Air operations will be performed from Crimea to the Caspian Sea, from Abkhazia to the Astrakhan region. During the first stage of drills, Russian aviation will repel 'enemy' attacks in the Rostov and Krasnodar regions and Crimea, and then relocate to operational aerodromes in Astrakhan, Stavropol and North Ossetia. 
During the second stage of the military exercise, Russian aircraft will attack an 'enemy' in Crimea, Kuban region, Stavropol, Astrakhan region, and over the Black and Caspian Seas. 
Russia's aviation will also repel an attack by cruise missiles together with six military ships from the Russian Black Sea Fleet. 
Registration Begins for Professional Visitors of the 2nd CIIE 
SHANGHAI, Aug. 1, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- The second China International Import Expo (CIIE) is now open for registration by professional visitors. Professional visitors from both home and abroad can register on the official website until September 30. 
The second CIIE, set to take place in Shanghai in November, will feature seven exhibition areas: Trade in Service, Automobile, Equipment, Sci-tech Life, Lifestyles, Medical Equipment & Healthcare Care Products, and Food & Agricultural Products. 
The planned exhibition area for enterprise and business exhibition at the second CIIE will amount to 300,000 square meters, which is bigger than the area of the first expo. 
The second CIIE will add a display area for high-end consumer goods and will show products related to augmented reality, virtual reality and advanced elderly care in order to match China's economic growth and rising consumption. 
The expo defines professional visitors as buyers, industry insiders and experts from enterprises, government organs, public institutions and social organizations. 
To make registration procedures for professional visitors as simple as possible, the event organizers have decided upon the following measures: 
First, last year's visitors will be exempted from having to register again. When they log in to the registration platform, information that they previously submitted will be loaded automatically after they click on the I'M A REGISTERED BUYER OF THE FIRST CIIE link. 
Second, the deadline for registration has been extended. Professional visitors will be able to register until September 30, one month later compared with last year. 
Third, detailed information on CIIE activities will be provided to professional visitors once they complete registration, with regular emails sent regarding exhibitors and their products. 
Last year, the first CIIE was held in Shanghai, allowing the world to enjoy the achievements of the country's globalization and economic growth. 
The value of potential deals resulting from the event topped US$57.8 billion. High-end smart technology made up the largest category at US$16.5 billion, followed by US$12.7 billion worth of food and agricultural products, and US$12 billion in automobiles. 
The second CIIE will take place from November 5 to 10, 2019 in Shanghai. 
About the China International Import Expo (CIIE) 
CIIE is China's national exhibition for import, jointly sponsored by Ministry of Commerce of the People's Republic of China and Shanghai Municipal People's Government. 
JA Solar Supplies PERC Bifacial Double-glass Modules for the Largest NEM Rooftop Project 
BEIJING, Aug. 2, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- JA Solar Co., Ltd, a world-leading manufacturer of high-performance photovoltaic products, announced that it supplied high-efficiency PERC bifacial double-glass modules for the 2.5MW Goodyear solar plant in Malaysia. The power plant is the largest rooftop solar plant under the NEM (Net Energy Metering) program to date, and is also of great importance for the application of high-efficiency modules as well as for the development of renewable energy in Malaysia. 
The NEM (Net Energy Metering) program is one of the most important energy projects in Malaysia. It aims to develop the application of solar power for industrial, commercial and agricultural markets as well as the installation of rooftop solar systems for homes, promoting the wider use of solar energy in the region. Malaysia's Minister of Energy, Science, Technology, Environment and Climate Change, Yeo Bee Yin attended the completion ceremony of the Goodyear 2.5MW solar power plant and delivered a speech at the event. 
Located in Shah Alam situated on the west coast of Peninsular Malaysia, the plant is owned by Goodyear, one of the world's leading tire manufacturers. JA Solar's high-efficiency PERC bifacial double-glass modules are installed on the roof of Goodyear's facility. The solar power generated by the high-efficiency modules can meet 11.5% of its power consumption every day. 
JA Solar's high-efficiency PERC bifacial double-glass modules incorporate the advantages of high-efficiency PERC bifacial cell technology and double-glass module structure with a bifaciality factor of over 70%. The JA Solar bifacial double-glass modules have excellent power generation capacity, low-radiation performance and PID resistance even in extreme weather conditions, such as high temperature and humidity. TÜV Rheinland, an authoritative testing institution, has verified that the energy yield of JA Solar's PERC bifacial double-glass module is 10.5% higher than that of conventional mono modules. This represents an excellent choice for users, enabling an attractive return on investment. 
Syria expects Turkey to comply with provisions of Nur-Sultan statement, says envoy 
The high-ranking Syrian official hailed the statement as the best in the Astana process history 
Syria's chief negotiator and Permanent Representative to the UN Bashar Jaafari 
NUR-SULTAN, August 2. /TASS/. Syria is satisfied with the final statement of the Nur-Sultan meeting but expects Turkey to comply with its provisions, Syria's chief negotiator and Permanent Representative to the UN Bashar Jaafari told reporters on Friday. 
This is perhaps the best [statement] throughout the existence of the Astana process, he said. However, one should suit the action to the word. That concerns, first and foremost, Turkey regarding its compliance with the terms of the truce near Idlib. 
According to Jaafari, Syria wants to convey to all participants in the talks in Kazakhstan’s capital that the final document is a test for Turkey’s statements. That’s why we say that the ceasefire in Syria is one of the provisions of the agreements between [Russian and Turkish Presidents] Vladimir Putin and Recep Tayyip Erdogan, he noted. 
The Syrian envoy did not provide any specific dates as to when Turkey is to ensure compliance with the terms of the ceasefire. He noted though that the Syrian government’s patience has its limits. 
The 13th international high-level meeting on Syria was held in Kazakhstan’s capital Nur-Sultan on August 1-2. Taking part in it were delegations of the guarantor nations (Russia, Iran and Turkey), the Syrian government and the armed opposition. Representatives of the UN and Jordan, as well as Lebanon and Iraq, who were involved in the Astana negotiation process for the first time, were invited to join the talks as observers. 
Irkutsk floods, Siberian fires linked to climate changes, says weather service 
The head of the Russian Meteorological Service noted that in the 1980-1990s there were annually about 100-150 dangerous natural phenomena which affected economy, and now there are 450-500 of these 
MOSCOW, August 2. /TASS/. Climate changes became one of the reasons of floods in the Irkutsk Region and fires in Siberia, head of the Russian Meteorological Service Maxim Yakovenko told journalists on Friday. 
Some misfortunes and emergency situations occur all the time - first floods, then fires. <...> As a matter fact, the reason is obvious: these are the ongoing climatic changes. They stayed below the radar before, but during the last six or seven years we have annually registered that the number of dangerous phenomena grew two and a half to three times compared with the previous decades, he said. 
He noted that in the 1980-1990s there were annually about 100-150 dangerous natural phenomena which affected economy, and now there are 450-500 such dangerous phenomena, and their number will grow in the near future. 
Floods in the Irkutsk Region started in June when rivers broke their banks due to heavy floods. About 10,900 houses in which 42,700 people lived were inundated in 109 communities in the first flood wave. Then 1,900 houses with a population of 5,300 people were flooded in 56 communities. Twenty-five people were killed, and six are missing. 
On the territory of the Amur Region, where a state of emergency was launched on July 25 due to the flood caused by heavy rains, 462 houses and 962 residential yards remain inundated, and a total of 2,572 people, including 902 children, were evacuated. Almost 200 people were evacuated in the region during the past day. The situation is most difficult now in the town of Belogorsk and the Blagoveshchensky district. Working groups were formed to notify residents and are already operating. 
According to the Aerial Forest Fire Center, 160 fires are burning on an area of 6,866 hectares on August 2 in Russia, 62 of them are in the Irkutsk Region and 69 fires are in the Krasnoyarsk Region. 
Brazilian striker Malcom inks contract with Russia’s Zenit St. Petersburg FC 
The footballer said he's happy to be on the squad and was ready to hit the field starting with the club’s match 4th round match of the RPL against Krasnodar FC on Saturday 
MOSCOW, August 2. /TASS/. Russia’s Zenit St. Petersburg football club has signed up Brazilian striker Malcom, who previously played for Spain’s Barcelona FC, the press office of the Russian club announced on Friday. 
Earlier in the week, Spanish sports daily Marca reported that the football club from the Russian second largest city of Saint Petersburg was ready to offer 40 million euros (some $44.5 million) for the 22-year-old forward and the football clubs were in negotiations on the issue as both Malcom and Barcelona FC expressed mutual interest. 
The contract between Zenit Saint Petersburg football club and the Brazilian forward has been inked on Friday for the term of five years and the sum of the deal reached 40 million euros stipulating additional five million euros in bonuses to Barcelona FC. 
Addressing a news conference on Friday in St. Petersburg, the Brazilian footballer said he was happy to be on the squad and was ready to hit the field starting with the club’s match 4th round match of the RPL against Krasnodar FC on Saturday. 
Malcom told journalists that he had already ample time with Barcelona FC training camp and was ready to be on the field tomorrow if the Russian club’s head coach decided to put him on the starting grid for the match between Zenit and Krasnodar. 
Zenit St. Petersburg FC Head Coach Sergei Semak told journalists he was very glad that such player as Malcom joined the team. 
We have started following Malcom’s achievements about a year ago, when I joined the club, Semak told a news conference. However, the transfer was too expensive for us at that time and we were granted with an opportunity of purchasing him only this year. 
Malcom is a footballer with great speed, precision and dribbling, Semak continued. Acquiring a footballer of this level in the Russian football can be rather viewed as an exception to the rules. 
The club’s head coach also said that the new regulations regarding foreign footballers allowed to play in the Russian Premier League (RPL), who are also referred to as ‘legionnaires,’ force Russian football clubs to pick the best international footballers. 
The Russian Football Union (RFU) decided in June to change the quota of foreign players allowed to play for RPL’s clubs starting next season. The RFU Executive Committee voted in favor of the ‘8+17’ formula in regard to a number of foreign players allowed to play in the Russian football championship beginning with the 2020/2021 season. 
The new limit on [legionnaires’ quota] regulations stipulates that all new legionnaires must be very strong and there are simply no more options, Semak stated. We need strong legionnaires, and Malcom is among them, for this year’s [UEFA] Champions League as well as for the next RPL season, which will start with new regulations on the foreign players’ quota. 
Last year, Barcelona FC paid 41 million Euros ($45.6 million) to sign up the Brazilian forward, according to the daily, therefore the Spanish club’s management has no interest in trading Malcom for a lesser sum. Malcom’s contract with Barcelona FC is in force until the summer of 2023. 
Malcom previously played for Brazil’s Corinthians FC (2014-2016) and French FC Bordeaux (2016-2018). Playing for Barcelona FC last season, he booked four goals and two assists in 24 matches. 
Military hydrographers to study Arctic seabed and coastline 
Results of the studies will be used to refine the current navigation maps and sailing instructions, the Pacific Fleet’s spokesman said 
TASS, August 5. The Pacific Fleet’s Sever (North) hydrographic vessel in August will participate in scientific studies of the Arctic’s bottom topography and coastline, the Fleet’s spokesman Nikolai Voskresensky told reporters. 
In August, the Pacific Fleet’s Sever hydrography vessel will depart from Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky heading for the Arctic, where the Fleet’s hydrographers will conduct hydrography works, including with latest equipment, he said. In the Arctic latitudes, the specialists will study the sea hydrology, will take detailed video of the bottom’s and the coastline’s topography in the Arctic region. 
The ship’s crew will also make topography and geodesy works to register and refine geographical coordinates, which determine the baseline between the Chukchi and East Siberian Seas, he continued, adding scientific research will be done also near the Wrangel Island. 
Results of the studies will be used to refine the current navigation maps and sailing instructions, he said. The long voyage of the Pacific Fleet’s Sever hydrographic vessel to the Arctic regions will continue for two months. 
New buildings and offices on Hainan to get charging stations for electric cars 
At least 15% of city space near the objects, including office buildings, should be given to parking lots with charging stations for eco-friendly cars 
HAIKOU, August 6./TASS/. The Hainan authorities demanded that in the parking lots of all new buildings under construction on the island areas be allocated for electric vehicles charging stations. According to Xinhua, they should occupy at least a quarter of the parking space. 
In the parking lots at other facilities, including office buildings, at least 15% of the total space should be given to charging stations for eco-friendly vehicles. Currently, the authorities have begun to carry out these provisions and a system of information support for the initiative has been established. 
The government of Hainan is focusing on protecting the environment in the region and promoting green technology on the island. In March, the authorities announced that by 2028 all official transport, in addition to the one being used by special and emergency services, will have to consist of electric vehicles. By 2030, the use of vehicles with internal combustion engines on the island will be completely prohibited. By that time, about 940,000 charging stations for electric vehicles should be installed across the province. 
Hainan's free trade zone project 
In April 2018, President Xi Jinping said that the Chinese authorities intend to actively involve Hainan in globalization and to draw foreign investors to the island province. By 2050, according to the authorities, the island should become a unique international cluster with an advanced economy, developed tourism, top-notch scientific, technical and financial potential, and modern medicine. The branches of the best universities and offices of the most powerful corporations in the world will be located on the Island of Hainan. 
By 2025, the Chinese government intends to create an international center for tourism and consumption on Hainan. In order to do so, the Eastern Hawaii with their unique natural landscapes, thick rainforests and great climate will establish a developed network of hotels, which blend perfectly with white sandy beaches stretching along the coastline. The combination of an exotic subtropical nature and a modern eco-friendly infrastructure will boost tourist inflow to the island from the most distant parts of the world. 
In 2018, more than 76 mln Chinese and foreign tourists visited the Island of Hainan which is by 11,8% more than in 2017. The province's income from tourism industry surged by 14,5% exceeding 95 bln yuan (about $14 bln). 
US Embassy in Russia confirms Huntsman will step down in October 
MOSCOW, August 7. /TASS/. The United States Embassy in Moscow has confirmed that US Ambassador to Russia Jon Huntsman has tendered resignation. 
According to a resignation letter, which the envoy sent to US President Donald Trump, Huntsman will step down on October 3. The diplomat called to continue holding Russia accountable when its behavior threatens the US and its allies but noted that Moscow and Washington have common interests which cannot be ignored. 
In particular, Huntsman stressed the need to maintain channels for dialogue on issues of national interest such as combatting terrorism and ensuring verifiable arms control. 
Huntsman was appointed the US envoy to Russia in October 2017. The diplomat earlier was the US Ambassador to Singapore in 1992-1993, the Governor of Utah in 2005-2009 and the US envoy to China in 2009-2011. 
In May 2011, Huntsman announced his candidacy for the Republican Party nomination for the president, but six months later he withdrew from the race and officially backed Mitt Romney, who was defeated by Democrat Barack Obama. During the 2012 presidential race, Huntsman criticized Obama’s policy of resetting ties between Washington and Moscow. 
Glycomine, Inc. Announces $33 Million Series B Financing 
SAN CARLOS, California, Aug. 7, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Glycomine, Inc., a biotechnology company focused on developing new therapies for rare diseases, today announced that it has raised $33 million in a Series B financing led by Novo Holdings A/S. Proceeds from the financing will be used to advance Glycomine's substrate replacement therapy for PMM2-CDG (CDG-1a), the most prevalent form in the spectrum of congenital diseases of glycosylation (CDG), into early stage clinical studies. 
Additional support for the financing was received from new investors Asahi Kasei Pharma Corporation and Mission Bay Capital as well as existing investors Sanderling and Chiesi Ventures. Glycomine's novel therapy offers great promise to address a critical unmet medical need, said Kenneth Harrison, Ph.D., of Novo Ventures. We believe that Glycomine's approach has potential to directly address many of the most debilitating symptoms of PMM2-CDG. 
In connection with the financing, Peter McWilliams, Ph.D., currently its acting CEO and a director, will join the company as its full time CEO. I am truly excited by the opportunity to join the company at this juncture and advance this therapy with a potential to provide relief for the patients and families affected by this devastating disease, said Peter McWilliams. The Series B financing will enable us to make significant progress in the clinic and we are delighted to have such a knowledgeable and experienced team of investors behind us and are thankful for the support they have placed in the team. 
Also in connection with the financing, Kenneth Harrison, Ph.D., will be joining the Board alongside Chris Starr, Ph.D., the co-founder of BioMarin and Raptor Pharmaceuticals. Chris Starr said, It is an exciting time at the company as we prepare for the clinic and have an opportunity to make a significant positive impact in the CDG community. 
About PMM2-CDG 
PMM2-CDG (also called CDG-Ia) is the most prevalent form in the spectrum of congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG) which cause incomplete formation of the glycan chains essential for the structure and function of many glycosylated proteins. PMM2-CDG is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme phosphomannomutase 2 (encoded by the gene PMM2). The disease affects many systems of the body resulting in symptoms such as hypotonia, liver disease, coagulopathies, stroke-like episodes, as well as immune and nervous system disfunctions. There is no cure for the more than 1,000 patients diagnosed with the disorder. 
About Glycomine, Inc. 
Glycomine is developing orphan drugs for serious rare monogenic disorders of metabolism and protein misfolding for which no other therapeutic options exist. The company's approach is to combine replacement therapies – substrates, enzymes, or proteins – with delivery vehicles consisting of bio-nanomaterials or ligands that target the molecules to the cell interior of clinically relevant organs. The company is based in San Carlos, California. Read more at www.glycomine.com. 
About Novo Ventures 
Novo Holdings is a Danish private limited liability company wholly owned by the Novo Nordisk Foundation. The company is the holding company in the Novo Group, comprising Novo Nordisk A/S, Novozymes A/S and NNIT A/S, and is responsible for managing the Foundation's assets. In addition to being the major shareholder in the Novo Group companies, Novo Holdings provides seed and venture capital to development-stage companies, takes significant ownership positions in well-established companies within life science and manages a broad portfolio of financial assets. Novo Ventures (US), Inc. is wholly owned by Novo Holdings and provides consulting services to Novo Holdings. Read more at www.novoholdings.dk. 
More than half of Russians have outstanding loans, survey shows 
The highest percentage of people with outstanding loans is in the age group between 25 and 34 years 
MOSCOW, August 7. / TASS /. More than half of Russians (51%) have outstanding loans, according to a survey by the All-Russian Public Opinion Research Center. The results of the survey were published on the center’s website. 
At the same time, the majority of respondents (84%) do not plan to take a loan or make a purchase on credit in the next six months. 
According to the survey, in the age group between 25 and 34 years the percentage of people with outstanding loans is the highest (72%). The percentage of such people at the age group between 35 and 44 is 63% and among residents of rural areas 56% people have unredeemed loans. 
The percentage of people with outstanding loans in the age group between 18 and 24 and those who are older than 60 are 37% and 31% respectively. 
The majority of Russians surveyed (74%), mainly people over the age of 60 (86%), as well as residents of two capitals (79%) and cities with a population of 500,000 to 950,000 people (79%) noted that they were not going to take a loan or make a purchase on credit in the next two to three years. 
However, 10% of respondents, most often those in the age group from 25 to 34 (18%) and from between 35 and 44 (14%), plan to take a loan to buy real estate. Another 6% of Russians surveyed, mainly young people aged 18 to 24 (11%), are going to take a loan to buy a car. The survey was conducted in the form of a phone interview on July 25 among 1,600 Russians aged 18 and older. For this sampling, the maximum error size with a probability of 95% does not exceed 2.5%. 
Embassy in Syria looking into disappearance of Russian national, diplomat says 
Media reports said communication with the Russian national was lost after he had headed to the area of Idlib with a group of volunteers 
SOLNECHNOGORSK /Moscow region/, August 9./TASS/. The Russian Embassy in Syria is looking into the disappearance of Oleg Melnikov, the leader of the social movement against slavery ‘Alternative’, Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Friday. 
Earlier, media reports said communication with the Russian national was lost after he had headed to the area of Idlib with a group of volunteers. 
As soon as the first reports came about the missing Russian national, the consular staff of the Russian Embassy in Syria began to clarify the circumstances, she added. 
A query was made to the Syrian authorities concerning his fate. Yes, work is underway. As soon as it yields first results that media can be reported about, we will do this, Zakharova said. 
Valery Kostenok pleads guilty to participating in mass protests in Moscow - lawyer 
He has become the 14th person that the Russian Investigative Committee has charged in the wake of July 27 protests 
MOSCOW, August 11./TASS/. Valery Kostenok, a volunteer from the Yabloko party, has pled guilty to taking part in mass protests in central Moscow on July 27, his lawyer Konstantin Kuzmin told TASS on Sunday. 
He admits his guilt, the lawyer said, adding that investigative activity with the defendant continues. Thus, Kostenok has become the first of 14 suspects in a criminal investigation into mass protests to admit his guilt. 
Earlier on Sunday, a law enforcement source told TASS that the Investigative Committee had charged Kostenok with taking part in mass rallies in Moscow on July 27 (Part 2 of Article 212 of the Russian Criminal Code). Kuzmin confirmed this information. 
Kostenok has become the 14th person that the Russian Investigative Committee has charged in the wake of July 27 protests. Early on Sunday, investigators searched his apartment and later he was taken to the Investigative Committee for questioning. A video was uploaded to the Internet earlier, where he was seen throwing bottles at police officers. 
Earlier reports said that twelve people had been arrested as part of a criminal investigation into mass protests and violence against law enforcement officers during the July 27 protests in Moscow. These are Yevgeny Kovalenko, Kirill Zhukov, Ivan Podkopayev, Samariddin Radjabov, Alexei Miniaylo, Yegor Zhukov, Daniil Konon, Vladislav Barabanov, Sergey Abanichev, Aidar Gubaidulin, Sergey Fomin and Danila Beglets. 
Earlier on Sunday, Moscow’s Basmanny Court rejected a motion filed by the Investigative Committee on arresting director of Doctor TV channel Dmitry Vasilyev, who was earlier detained as part of the investigation into the protests. 
Vasilyev was detained on Friday, becoming the 13th suspect in the criminal case. He was later urgently hospitalized from a pre-trial detention center after high blood sugar levels. The court rejected the motion, as the decision on the arrest can be taken without the defendant’s participation only if he or she is on the wanted list. 
The July 27 rally drew about 3,000 participants, over 1,000 of whom were hauled off and 88 were put in custody. Ahead of the rallies, the authorities issued warnings saying that any violation of the law would lead to legal consequences and culpability. 
Election Commission sees no reasons for postponement of Moscow City Duma elections 
There must be serious grounds for this, the commission's chief said 
MOSCOW, August 12. /TASS/. The chief of Russia’s Central Election Commission, Ella Pamfilova, has said that there are no serious reasons for postponing the forthcoming September 8 elections to the Moscow City Duma. Should such reasons surface, the CEC will be prepared to consider a delay. 
Postponing elections without a reason is impossible. There must be serious grounds for this. So far there have been only speculations that those who did not collect signatures were registered, while those who collected them were denied registration. As you may understand, this is not serious, Pamfilova said in a commentary on the Business FM radio station. 
The CEC would be prepared to consider a postponement only if there are facts and reasons for this, she stated. 
Naturally, we will then look into the situation in accordance with the law. Now it would be premature. We are not through yet with studying all messages addressed to us and other evidence we are still getting. There is no opportunity at the moment for discussing this at all, Pamfilova said. 
Earlier, the daily Vedomosti said one of those denied registration as a candidate in the Moscow City Duma elections, Ilya Yashin, addressed the CEC chief with a written request for postponing the September 8 election to the Moscow city legislature till late autumn. Also, he asked Pamfilova to let opposition candidates participate. 
The Moscow City Duma elections are due September 8. A total of 233 candidates, including 171 candidates from political parties and 62 self-nominees have been registered. Registration was denied to 57 potential candidates, including 39 self-nominees. A total of 129 candidates will be contesting Moscow City Duma seats from parliamentary parties: 45 from the LDPR, 44 from the CPRF and 40 from A Just Russia. Among the registered candidates there are also nominees from the parties Yabloko, the Communists of Russia, Rodina, the Greens and the Party of Growth. 
Ukrainian ex-president says ready to take lie detector test on TV 
Earlier on Monday, Poroshenko was questioned over a suspected tax evasion scheme associated with the purchase and sale of the Pryamoi TV channel 
KIEV, August 12. /TASS/. Former Ukrainian President Pyotr Poroshenko is ready to take a lie detector test on TV, as he himself said on Monday. 
As for State Bureau of Investigations [SBI] chief Roman Truba’s statement about a lie detector test, I am ready for it, but let the test take pace not at the SBI office but in the live studio of the Pryamoi TV channel, Poroshenko said, following a questioning over suspected tax evasion concerning the TV channel’s sale. 
According to the ex-president, he did not trust the SBI and its top officials. I doubt the impartiality of the investigation, Poroshenko said. When I made this suggestion, they weren't very enthusiastic about it, he added. 
The State Bureau of Investigations (SBI) chief Roman Truba stated earlier on Monday that Poroshenko may be put through a lie detector test during the next questioning. Today, Pyotr Poroshennko was questioned over suspected tax evasion concerning the sale of the Pryamoi TV channel. We don’t rule out that the next questioning will involve a lie detector, Truba wrote on Telegram. 
He added that it was no big deal. All our personnel go through such a psychophysiological test every year, he noted. 
A SBI spokesperson told reporters following Poroshenko’s questioning that the ex-president had been summoned as a witness. He was questioned as a witness in two cases, no charges have been brought against him yet, the spokesperson said, adding that she could not comment on other cases. She also said that the date of Poroshenko’s next questioning would be announced in due time. 
Earlier on Monday, Poroshenko was questioned over a suspected tax evasion scheme associated with the purchase and sale of the Pryamoi TV channel. The questioning took place at the SBI office. The case is based on a complaint filed by attorney Andrei Portnov who served as deputy chief of the presidential staff under Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich. He accused Poroshenko of money laundering committed during the takeover of the Pryamoi TV channel. According to Portnov, Poroshenko took control of the TV channel by registering it to an offshore company fictitiously owned by a former Party of Regions member Vladimir Makeyenko. 
Russia’s Baltic Fleet pilots destroy enemy warships in drills 
KALININGRAD, August 12. /TASS/. The crews of Su-30SM fighters and Su-24M bombers of the Baltic Fleet’s naval aviation destroyed a notional enemy’s naval taskforce during scheduled maneuvers, the Fleet’s press office reported on Monday. 
At the Baltic Fleet’s sea ranges, the Su-30SM multirole fighters and the Su-24M frontline bombers conducted combat exercises for overcoming the air defenses of a group of the notional enemy’s warships and delivering a missile and bombing strike, the statement reads. 
The pilots approached the targets from different directions, performing speed and altitude maneuvers to make it difficult for the enemy warships to repel the air attack. The Baltic Fleet’s warships accomplishing their assignments at sea simulated the adversary force during the drills, the press office said. 
After getting the target acquisition, the crews of the Su-30SM multirole fighters and the Su-24M frontline bombers practiced bombing from medium and low altitudes against seaborne target screens simulating the notional enemy’s naval taskforce, the statement says. 
The data-recording equipment has confirmed the destruction of the targets and the results of direct hits have been visually confirmed with the help of unmanned aerial vehicles. 
More than 10 aircraft of the Fleet’s naval aviation, and also unmanned aerial vehicles were involved in the missions to detect and destroy the notional enemy’s warships, the press office said. 
Local residents allowed to return home after blasts at ammo depot in Krasnoyarsk region 
A series of explosions was earlier reported at an ammo depot near Kamenka settlement in the Achinsky district of Krasnoyarsk region 
KRASNOYARSK, August 13. /TASS/. Residents of the Kamenka settlement in Krasnoyarsk region were allowed to return to their homes after last week's series of explosions at an ammo depor nearby, head of the Achinsky district Yevgeny Rozanchugov told TASS on Tuesday. 
A state of emergency has not been lifted, but residents were allowed to return, Rozanchugov said adding that the decision was made at around 9am local time. 
First explosions were reported at an ammo depot near the settlement of Kamenka in the Achinsky district on August 5, and open fire was extinguished on August 6. Over 16,000 people were evacuated from settlements in the 20 km radius from the site. New explosions were reported at the ammo depot on August 9. Around 1,200 people were evacuated from Kamenka then. 
One person died and 32 more were injured in the explosions. The Russian Defense Ministry said that the second series of explosions on August 9 was caused by a lightning strike. 
US court issues warrant to seize Iranian oil tanker Grace 1 
On July 4, Gibraltar’s authorities detained the Grace 1 oil tanker flying the Panamanian flag on suspicion of carrying oil to Syria in breach of EU sanctions 
MOSCOW, August 17. /TASS/. The US Federal Court in the District of Columbia has issued an arrest warrant for Iranian oil tanker, the Grace 1, the US Department of Justice announced in a statement. 
A seizure warrant and forfeiture complaint were unsealed today in the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia alleging that Oil Tanker Grace 1, all petroleum aboard it and $995,000.00 are subject to forfeiture based on violations of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (IEEPA), bank fraud statute, and money laundering statute, as well as separately the terrorism forfeiture statute, the statement reads. 
The documents allege a scheme to unlawfully access the U.S. financial system to support illicit shipments to Syria from Iran by the Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), a designated foreign terrorist organization, according to the statement from the US Department of Justice. 
The scheme involves multiple parties affiliated with the IRGC and furthered by the deceptive voyages of the Grace 1. A network of front companies allegedly laundered millions of dollars in support of such shipments. 
On July 4, Gibraltar’s authorities detained the Grace 1 oil tanker flying the Panamanian flag on suspicion of carrying oil to Syria in breach of EU sanctions. The operation involved British marines. 
According to Gibraltar’s authorities, there were 28 crew members onboard the vessel, including nationals of India, Pakistan and Ukraine. In response, the Iranian Foreign Ministry summoned the British ambassador to Tehran. Spain’s Acting Foreign Minister Josep Borrell said that the oil tanker had been detained at the United States’ request. 
Hainan hosts international youth ping pong tournament 
China is rightfully considered the world leader in this sport 
SANYA, August 17. /TASS/. The international table tennis tournament Xu Shaofa Cup will be held in Sanya in teh Hainan Province from August 17 to 23, the Hainan Daily reported. 
The competition will bring together 500 young athletes and table tennis lovers aged 4 to 18 years. The tournament is allowed not only professionals, but also just beginning to go in for sports, pupils of Chinese children's and youth sports schools, youth palaces, private table tennis clubs, as well as school circles. 
According to the newspaper, this year the tournament will feature not only Chinese citizens, but also athletes from Malaysia, Singapore, the United States and other countries and regions of the world. It will host single men's and women's competitions, as well as pair competitions - men's, women's and mixed games two for two. 
Xu Shaofa was born in 1945 in Jilin Province in northeast China, he is a multiple winner and prize winner of the world table tennis championships as part of the Chinese team. He coached the national team for a long time and led the PRC team to victory at 12 world championships. In 2001, Xu Shaofa was awarded the International Table Tennis Federation award for his contribution to the development of sports. Currently, he organizes unprofessional youth table tennis tournaments in China and other countries and regions of the world. 
Table Tennis in China 
China is rightfully considered the world leader in the game of table tennis. Since the 1970s, his athletes have been confidently leading in the women's world classification: the Chinese tennis player team only twice lost the victory in the team event - in 1991 and in 2010. In the men's standings, the championship also belongs to athletes from China - since 2001, the national team won gold at all world championships. In 1988, table tennis was included in the program of the Olympic Games: out of 32 sets of gold awards played from the late 80s to the present day, 28 went to the Chinese. 
Sports observers, experts and fans often wonder what the secret of athletes from China is. Abroad, young tennis players are trying to copy the technique of the world famous Ma Luna, Zhang Zedong, Zhang Jike and other Chinese athletes. However, watching videos of the Chinese table tennis gurus is apparently not enough - in the world ratings of players, all first places in this sport still belong only to Chinese athletes. 
Infortrend Reshapes Oil & Gas Production with Real-Time Big Data Analytics 
TAIPEI, Taiwan, Aug. 20, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Infortrend® Technology, Inc. (TWSE: 2495) has enabled a global Oil & Gas producer to optimize its production efficiency with advanced big data analytics. Infortrend's data storage solution provides industry leading bandwidth capabilities to ensure immediate error-free data acquisition and analysis. Infortrend storage technology now empowers this Oil & Gas giant to locate oil fields with laser precision by analyzing huge amounts of drilling data in real-time. 
In this data-driven era, enterprises rely heavily on maximizing the value of the data assets to improve productivity and to find new insights for business innovation. Most importantly, decision makers are equipped with precise data analytics to make strategic plans and gain a competitive edge. 
Oil & Gas industry is one of the examples using big data analytics to improve production efficiency, since oil & gas production is always involved with massive data volumes collected from thousands of drilling equipment, such as downhole sensors, geophone detectors, and hydrophone. 
China National Offshore Oil Corporation, one of the leading oil company in the world, has discovered more than 3 billion tons of oil in Bohai Gulf. To better locate oil fields, the company built a data center in Northern China, which collects all the oil drilling data. For precise results, it then analyzes and calculates the collected data through distributed computing. 
In this project, the oil company installed hundreds of Infortrend's storage systems, including EonStor DS and EonStor GS in its data center to gather and store the vital information. Infortend's storage solution supports up to 11,000/5,500 MB/s read/write speed and up to 750,000 IOPS performance, which can fulfill the requirements for high-speed data acquisition and analyzing. 
In addition to performance, EonStor GS unified storage can be used as a NAS storage, which allows different departments of the oil company to share the file folder and enhance the collaboration efficiency. 
For mission-critical applications, such as Oil & Gas, minimizing downtime is a major consideration. Infortrend's storage systems delivers high-availability operation with the redundancy design of power supplies, fans and controllers. Thanks to hot-swappable modular design, failed component can be easily replaced and maintained without interrupting the system. 
Faced with the continued energy demand in the future, Oil & Gas industries need to adopt an efficient and stable IT operation platform to process the huge data collection and processing. Infortrend's wide range of enterprise-level storage products can help companies to gain advantages of big data analytics with our advanced data management solutions, said Thomas Kao, Senior Director of Product Planning. 
About Infortrend 
Infortrend (TWSE: 2495) has been developing and manufacturing storage solutions since 1993. With a strong emphasis on in-house design, testing, and manufacturing, Infortrend storage delivers performance and scalability with the latest standards, user friendly data services, personal after-sales support, and unrivaled value. For more Information, please visit www.infortrend.com 
Infortrend® and EonStor® are trademarks or registered trademarks of Infortrend Technology, Inc., other trademarks are the property of their respective owners. 
China boosts economic ties with Mongolia 
Boao Forum for Asia, dubbed the Davos of the East, is a big platform for signing important agreements and international coordination between business and political elites 
HAIKOU, August 20. /TASS/. The ways of involving Mongolia in the programs of the Belt and Road initiative, the intensification of its business cooperation with the Hainan free trade zone are discussed at a conference held in Ulan Bator on August 19-21. It is run by the headquarters of the Asian Economic Forum in Boao and is being held in Mongolia's capital for the first time. 
According to the forum's website, the conference is dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Mongolia and is held under the motto Interaction for the benefit of cooperation in the new era. In addition to the prospects of a comprehensive Sino-Mongolian partnership and the creation of new opportunities for bilateral projects with the participation of Hainan, the conference pays attention to issues of universal development under the conditions of increasing pressure and protectionism from individual states, as well as to the problems of ensuring sustainable global development by strengthening multilateral international mechanisms. 
The conference is attended by over 300 representatives of international business and experts. During the forum, a Sino-Mongolian diplomatic dialogue will take place, an examination of the industrial sites of Mongolia and meetings of participants with the heads of trade and economic departments of this country. It is expected that the conference will create even more significant opportunities for cooperation between the countries of the entire region, the AEF headquarters noted. 
“With the forum's agenda expanding in recent years, its events have been held in both Asia and other regions,” deputy director of the Department for Foreign Trade and Economic Cooperation of Mongolia's Ministry of Foreign Affairs said. “Business events were organized during the conference in Ulan Bator between representatives of domestic and foreign business circles. This will be an excellent opportunity to promote the interests of Mongolia abroad. 
The diplomat recalled that the Boao Forum conference is being held in the Mongolian capital for the first time. Among its participants are the Prime Minister of Mongolia Ukhnaagiin Khurelsuh, Chairman of the Board of Directors of the AEF Ban Ki-moon, Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific Armida Alisjabana. 
About the forum's history 
Boao Forum for Asia, dubbed the Davos of the East, is a big platform for signing important agreements and international coordination between business and political elites, The forum has been held since 2001, usually in spring, following China's main annual political event — the two sessions, where the Chinese authorities shape up the country's national strategy. 
The government pays special attention to the forum as it facilitates China's international contracts, settles diplomatic agenda, promotes China's image and the concept of Community of Common Destiny globally. According to the Chinese top diplomat, this regular forum has become an important bridge connecting China with the outside world. 
The Boao Forum bacame the center of global attention in April, 2018, when China's President Xi Jinping attended the opening ceremony. Speaking at the forum, the Chinese leader for the first time announced a number of important national policy highlights regarding the new market reforms, structural changes and boosting China's openness. 
Russia will try to persuade Iran, US to move away from dangerous line — diplomat 
Russia's acting envoy to the United Nations Dmitry Polyansky said that the US and Iran should start resolving disagreements through dialogue 
UNITED NATIONS, August 20. /TASS/. Iran and the United States should move away from the dangerous line in their bilateral relations and resolve disagreements through dialogue, Russia's acting envoy to the United Nations Dmitry Polyansky said on Tuesday during open debates on the Middle East in the UN Security Council. 
I want to assure you that in this uneasy context, we will continue trying to persuade both Iranian and American colleagues that they need to move away from this dangerous line in order to start resolving disagreements through dialogue which presupposes giving up the policy of ultimatums, sanctions and blackmailing, Polyansky said. 0sap 
Tensions around Iran soared after the United States unilaterally withdrew from the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) on the Iranian nuclear deal and imposed economic sanctions on Tehran's oil exports. 
Want to fly? You have to comply: A321 bird strike may tighten engine requirements — expert 
To date, the tests of large Russian-made engines simulate a strike by a bird weighing 8 kg 
A321 plane of the Ural Airlines that made a belly landing near Zhukovsky International Airport 
UFA, August 21. /TASS/. Managing Director and CEO of Aviadvigatel (part of Russia’s United Engine-Making Corporation) Alexander Inozemtsev told TASS on Wednesday that aircraft engine requirements may be tightened, due to the recent incident with an Airbus A321 that was forced to belly-land in a Moscow suburban cornfield after striking a flock of birds causing the airliner’s engines to fail. 
If all this is true [that a flock of birds struck the airliner’s engines], this may quite lead to further tightening of the requirements for engine tests. But we still have to wait for the official results of the probe into this incident, the chief executive said on the sidelines of the 12th All-Russian congress on fundamental problems of theoretical and applied mechanics, which runs in Ufa on August 19-24. 
Today, the tests of large Russian-made engines simulate a strike by a bird weighing 8 kg. Also, 15 gulls were hurled into the PD-14 engine to demonstrate its reliability upon a bird strike, he said, adding that the designers would have to adapt themselves to a possible change in the requirements. 
If we are assigned a task, we will have to deal with it since there is no other way out: if you want to fly, you have to comply with the requirements, the Aviadvigatel chief executive said. 
On August 15, a Ural Airlines Airbus A321 was heading to Simferopol from Moscow when it made a belly landing near Zhukovsky International Airport. According to the Federal Air Transport Agency and the airline, the plane struck a flock of birds shortly after takeoff. Both of the aircraft’s engines sucked in some gulls and caught fire. There were over 230 people aboard the aircraft, of them 226 passengers including 41 children. 
The crew managed to land the plane in a cornfield and evacuate all the passengers. According to the latest data of the Health Ministry, a total of 76 people, including 19 children, were hurt in the emergency landing. One woman was hospitalized. 
On August 16, Russian President Vladimir Putin bestowed the Hero of Russia titles on the two Ural Airlines pilots who had made the belly landing and awarded the flight attendants with the Orders of Courage. 
Putin hands down orders to work on symmetric response to US new cruise missile’s test 
The Russian leader stated this at a meeting with permanent members of Russia’s Security Council 
MOSCOW, August 23. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has given instructions to analyze the threat level in the wake of the US test of a new cruise missile modification and take measures for preparing a symmetric response, the Kremlin’s press office reported on Friday. 
The Russian leader stated this at a meeting with permanent members of Russia’s Security Council, which focused on this issue. 
Considering the newly emerging circumstances, I instruct the Defense Ministry, the Foreign Ministry and other specialized agencies to analyze the level of the threat, which the above-mentioned US moves are creating for our country, and take comprehensive measures for preparing a symmetric response, the Russian leader said. 
At the same time, Russia is still open for an equitable and constructive dialogue with the United States of America for restoring trust and strengthening international security, Putin stressed. 
The new missile test conducted by the US and Washington’s withdrawal from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty were the links in a chain of pre-planned events, according to Putin. 
It is noteworthy that the tests of a missile with characteristics prohibited under the treaty were conducted just 16 days after the completion of the procedure of denouncing that treaty initiated by Washington, he said. Apparently, that was not an improvisation but another link in a chain of pre-planned actions. 
Putin also said that Moscow will not be drawn into the expensive arms race despite the US’ actions. 
As you know we have never wanted, do not want and will not be drawn into the expensive arms race that is devastating for our economy, he said. 
By its defense spending, Russia holds quite a modest 7th place in the world after the United States of America, the People’s Republic of China, Saudi Arabia, Great Britain, France and Japan, the Russian leader said. 
Our work to develop the most advanced weapon systems that are truly unrivaled in the world was prompted and, it can be said, was provoked by the unilateral pullout of the United States of America from the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty, the Russian leader noted. 
We were simply forced and undoubtedly obliged to ensure the security of our people and our country. We are doing this now and we will undoubtedly be doing this in the future, Putin stressed. 
Putin believes that the US staged a propaganda campaign accusing Russia of violating provisions of the INF Treaty in order to cover up its own plans to withdraw from the agreement. 
Instead of trying to straight out this unacceptable situation and getting back to the observance of the Treaty, the Americans staged a propaganda campaign on Russia’s alleged non-compliance with the Treaty’s provisions, Putin said. 
It is now obvious to everyone that the main aim of this campaign was to cover up Washington’s work, which was in violation of the Treaty and initially envisaged the withdrawal from this agreement, the Russian president added. 
Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told reporters earlier on Thursday that Putin had held an ad hoc meeting with permanent members of the Russian Security Council, centering on the INF Treaty in the context of Washington’s test launch of the Tomahawk cruise missile’s latest modification. 
US cruise missile test 
The US Department of Defense said in a statement on Monday that on August 18 the US conducted a flight test of a conventionally-configured ground-launched cruise missile at San Nicolas Island, California. The test missile exited its ground mobile launcher and accurately impacted its target after more than 500 kilometers of flight. Data collected and lessons learned from this test will inform the Department of Defense's development of future intermediate-range capabilities, the Pentagon added. 
On August 2, Washington formally withdrew from the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, signed by the Soviet Union and the United States on December 8, 1987. It applied to deployed and non-deployed ground-based missiles of intermediate range (1,000-5,000 kilometers) and shorter range (500-1,000 kilometers). Washington repeatedly accused Russia of violating the accord, but Moscow vehemently dismissed all accusations and, in its turn, expressed grievances over Washington’s non-compliance. 
Following Washington’s withdrawal, the Russian Foreign Ministry announced that the Treaty had been terminated on the United States’ initiative. 
Russia to finance modernization of Abkhazia’s Armed Forces 
MOSCOW, August 23. /TASS/. Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu and Abkhazian Defense Minister Mirab Kishmaria have signed the agreement on financing the costs of the modernization of the republic’s armed forces. 
Today we will study and sign the agreement on further development of our military-technical cooperation and the modernization of the Armed Forces of Abkhazia. Welcome to Moscow, Shoigu said at the meeting with his Abkhazian counterpart. 
He reiterated that Russia and Abkhazia enjoy common defense and security space. We were the first to recognize the republic’s independence and we continue to offer it comprehensive help. The documents and agreements signed in 2014 and 2015 and, naturally, our military base, which we are strengthening and which is a guarantor of stability thanks to our joint efforts, are of great importance, Shoigu highlighted. 
The Abkhazian defense minister, for his part, expressed gratitude for Russia’s contribution to the republic’s security. The fact that the seventh base and the joint group that we set up is providing security is of special gratitude. [This is] first of all your merit, the merit of your officers and generals who are providing security jointly with our officers and generals and the defense ministry. I reiterate my gratitude for the statehood that our armies are providing, Kishmaria concluded. 
Russia-Abkhazia military cooperation 
The military cooperation of the two states officially started when Russia recognized Abkhazia as an independent state. This took place following Georgia’s aggression against Abkhazia and South Ossetia in August 2008. Russian peacemakers made the Georgian army agree to a ceasefire, thus guaranteeing security for the citizens of the two republics that were unrecognized then. After repelling aggression on the territory of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, two military bases of the Russian Armed Forces were established to ensure the republics’ security in the future. 
Russian cutting-edge missile frigate enters final stage of shipbuilders’ trials 
The Project 22350 first serial-produced frigate Admiral Kasatonov displaces 5,000 tonnes and is 135 meters long 
MOSCOW, August 23. /TASS/. The Project 22350 first serial-produced frigate Admiral Kasatonov armed with Kalibr cruise missiles has entered the final stage of shipbuilders’ trials, the Severnaya Shipyard reported on Friday. 
The shipbuilders’ and the subsequent state trials will last through December. Following the results of the trials and the conclusions by the state commission, Navy Commander-in-Chief Admiral Nikolai Yevmenov will make a decision on accepting the warship for service in the Northern Fleet, the press office said in a statement. 
The frigate’s crew and the delivery team will check the operation of all the shipboard systems, mechanisms, equipment and weapon systems, the statement says. 
The frigate displaces 5,000 tonnes and is 135 meters long. It carries the Kalibr cruise missile system as its main armament. Earlier, the Project 22350 lead frigate Admiral Gorshkov entered service with the Russian Navy. 
Project 22350 frigates are expected to become the Russian Navy’s most advanced warships in their class. These frigates can develop a speed of 29 knots. They are armed with Oniks and Kalibr missiles and the Poliment-Redut air defense missile systems. 
WADA unable telling NHL to suspend Russian hockey player Kuznetsov for doping 
According to an official statement from the IIHF, the period of ineligibility to be imposed shall be four years, concluding on 12th June 2023 
MOSCOW, August 23. /TASS/. The World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) has no authority to advise the US-based National Hockey League (NHL) to impose a suspension on Russian player Yevgeni Kuznetsov, WADA said in a statement addressed to TASS. 
The International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) announced earlier in the day that it suspended Russian player Kuznetsov, who is a forward of NHL’s Washington Capitals, for the term of four years, citing violations of anti-doping regulations. 
According to the world’s governing ice hockey body, Kuznetsov’s doping sample, which tested positive for cocaine, was collected on May 26 during the IIHF Ice Hockey World Championship in Slovakia. 
The NHL is not a signatory to the World Anti-Doping Code and therefore is not bound by its terms, the global anti-doping organization said in a statement for TASS. 
NHL Deputy Commissioner Bill Daly announced in a statement on Friday that the North American ice hockey league did not list cocaine as a performance enhancing drug. 
Unlike the IIHF, cocaine is not considered a performance enhancing drug and is therefore not a Prohibited Substance under the NHL/NHLPA Performance Enhancing Substances Program, according to the statement. 
The IIHF’s four-year suspension means that the 27-year-old Russian ice hockey player, who is the 2018 NHL Stanley Cup winner, will banned from taking part in all matches supervised by the IIHF and KHL (Russia-based Kontinental Hockey League) and is most likely to skip the 2022 Winter Olympic Games in China’s Beijing. 
Kuznetsov joined NHL’s Washington Capitals in 2013 and booked in the previous regular season 72 points (21 goals, 51 assists) in addition to six points (1 goal, 5 assists) in the playoffs. Playing for the Russian national team, Kuznetsov is the two-time gold medalist (2012 and 2014) and three-time bronze medalist (2016, 2017, 2019) of the IIHF Ice Hockey World Championships. 
According to an official statement from the IIHF earlier in the day: The prohibited substance was found in a doping control which occurred on 26 May 2019 at the 2019 IIHF Ice Hockey World Championship. The player didn’t require the analysis of his B-sample and was provisionally suspended on 13th June 2019. The period of ineligibility to be imposed shall be four years, concluding on 12th June 2023.. 
More than 1.3 bln employees worldwide aren't qualified enough for their jobs, survey says 
A partner of the BCG company was presenting an international study of global challenges in the human capital market, which took place as part of the WorldSkills 2019 World Championship 
KAZAN, August 26. /TASS/. More than 1.3 bln employees in the world are not qualified enough for their jobs, Anton Stepanenko a partner of the BCG company said on Monday. 
He was presenting an international study of global challenges in the human capital market, which took place as part of the WorldSkills 2019 World Championship. 
In Russia, this figure is almost 34 mln people, he added. 
1.3 bln workers worldwide are now exposed to the problem of the so-called qualification pit, which means that they work in conditions where their qualifications are insufficient or [on the contrary] they have too many [skills]. <...> This is a very large figure, a very big inefficiency in distribution of human capital. In Russia, this figure is almost 34 million [people], Stepanenko said. 
According to him, nowadays, every employer faces a problem, when his or her company often cannot find employees with the necessary qualifications. 
He reiterated that qualification pit is one of the reasons for that: people work without having enough qualifications or, on the contrary, they have too many skills for their jobs. However, for some reason, they cannot or do not want to find a more optimal occupation for themselves. 
As Stepanenko noted, for companies this situation implies a hidden tax on labor productivity. On the one hand, if an organization takes an employee with insufficient qualifications, the employer has to invest in retraining, which is not always effective and not always possible. On the other hand, if an employee has too many qualifications, this means that at some point someone, for example the state, invested too much in his training. 
If we compare the results for all countries <...>, annually the global GDP losses at least $5 trillion because of the qualification pit. This is not less than 6% of global GDP in general. Unfortunately, this figure is only growing, Stepanenko said. 
He said that the human centric approach may help find a solution to the problem. It implies that in any country workers should be trained in skills that will be relevant in the tomorrow's labor market. They should be permanently involved in ongoing retraining, inspired for development. It is necessary to create opportunities on the labor market for maximum self-fulfillment, he said. 
BCG conducted the study together with WorldSkills and Russian nuclear state corporation Rosatom in the first half of 2019. The methods included an online survey and a series of interviews in almost 30 countries, interviews with more than 100 of the largest employers worldwide, an analysis of statistics from the International Labor Organization, UNESCO. 
Manufacturer presents Elbrus 801M PC at MAKS 2019 aerospace show 
According to the concern Avtomatika, the all-in-one PC is resistible to most types of cyberattacks 
ZHUKOVSKY /Moscow Region/, August 27. /TASS/. Russia’s concern Avtomatika (an affiliate of Rostec) has presented its newly-designed high performance all-in-one computer Elbrus 801M with an enlarged screen and extra slots for modern video cards, the concern’s press-service said on Monday. 
The upgraded and redesigned all-in-one Elbrus 801M will be in great demand mostly by virtue of its high efficiency, cyber protection and ergonomic features, the press-service quotes the concern’s CEO Vladimir Kabanov as saying. 
The Elbrus 801M was created on the basis of Russia’s eight-kernel microprocessor Elbrus-8S. Its peak performance is 120 GFLOPs. The PC is meant for high security clearance workstations and ordinary ones for routine document processing. The Elbrus 801M is compatible with operating systems intended for foreign microchips with x86 instruction sets, which is crucial for ensuring user comfort. 
The Elbrus 801M is a domestically developed product of the Bruk Institute of Electronic Control Computers, an affiliate of the concern Avtomatika. It considerably surpasses foreign counterparts in terms of security. 
The Russia-manufactured central microprocessor considerably enhances the PC’s security in contrast to its counterparts developed on the basis of foreign microprocessors. It is highly resistible to most types of cyberattacks (such as Spectre and Meltdown), the concern said. 
Currently the Elbrus 801M is in the test operation phase. The manufacturer hopes it will be of interest to the military, law-enforcers and also energy and transport companies. An estimated several thousand PCs will be provided next year. 
MAKS 2019 
The international aerospace show MAKS 2019 is being held in Zhukovsky, near Moscow, on August 27-September 1, as organized by Russia’s Ministry of Industry and Trade and Rostec corporation. The show has attracted 827 companies from 33 countries, including 184 foreign companies. 
Russian team needs changing its game at 2019 European Volleyball Championship — official 
By now the Russian team boasts two wins and one defeat in the tournament 
MOSCOW, August 28. /TASS/. Players of the Russian national team need changing their game at the 2019 Women’s European Volleyball Championship to achieve a positive result, Alexander Yaremenko, secretary general of the Russian Volleyball Federation (RVF), told TASS on Wednesday. 
We saw them having difficulties, which are objective, Yaremenko said. We have lost [Irina] Fetisova, who is one of the key players in our team. This may turn into a huge loss. 
We have a chance now to straighten out the game and show a good result, Yaremenko stated. But many questions remain unanswered after what we saw in the match with Germany. 
The 2019 Women’s European Volleyball Championship kicked off last Friday and the Russian team is currently third in its Pool D with seven points after defeating Belarus (3-0) and Switzerland (3-0), but then losing to Germany (2-3). Russia is playing its next match on Wednesday, August 28, against Spain. 
The CEV (European Volleyball Confederation) European Volleyball Championship tournaments have been held once in every two years since 1975. 
The 2019 Women’s European Volleyball Championship is the first ever to be hosted by four European countries, namely Hungary, Poland, Turkey and Slovakia. 
This year the format of the tournament, which runs between August 23 and September 8, has been expanded from 16 to 24 national teams participating in the event. The teams were divided into four groups of six teams each. 
The Russian women’s team, which failed to clear the quarterfinals stage at the European championship in 2017 (losing 0-3 to Turkey), was drawn into Pool D for this year’s tournament alongside with the national squads from Slovakia, Germany, Belarus, Spain and Switzerland. Group stage matches of the teams from Pool D are played in Bratislava. 
In all, the Russian team won the Women’s European Volleyball Championship six times and packed the bronze of three more tournaments. The winner of the 2017 CEV Women’s European Volleyball Championship is the Serbian team. 
Russian defense firm signs export deals for next-generation guided bomb 
The new 1,500kg guided air bomb K029BE with the inertial satellite guidance system was unveiled at the MAKS-2019 aerospace show 
ZHUKOVSKY /Moscow Region/, August 29. /TASS/. Russia’s State Research and Production Association Region (part of the Tactical Missiles Corporation) has concluded export contracts for the delivery of the next-generation UPAB-1500 guided bomb, Region CEO Igor Krylov said at the MAKS-2019 international aerospace show on Thursday. 
The state trials of the UPAB-1500 [the K029BE] have been completed and these munitions are being delivered to military units and export contracts have already been signed, the chief executive said. 
The new 1,500kg guided air bomb K029BE with the inertial satellite guidance system was unveiled at the MAKS-2019 aerospace show. 
The MAKS-2019 international aerospace show runs in the town of Zhukovsky outside Moscow on August 27 - September 1. The event’s organizers are Russia’s Industry and Trade Ministry and the state hi-tech corporation Rostec. A total of 827 companies from 33 countries are taking part in the aerospace show, including 184 foreign firms. 
Lighter thermal sight to complement combat gear Ratnik 
Russia’s holding company Shvabe also created the technology increasing aiming distance 
ZHUKOVSKY /Moscow Region/, August 30. /TASS/. Russia’s holding company Shvabe has developed a new, lighter version of the thermal night vision weapon sight, which is to complement the soldier’s field combat gear Ratnik, Shvabe’s first deputy CEO for research and development and innovations, Sergei Popov, told TASS in an interview. 
Currently Shvabe provides older versions of thermal night and day vision sights for the gear Ratnik and keeps working on their upgrade. As far as thermal vision sights are concerned, it is essential to reduce their mass. 
Before, the sight had seven lenses, which made it rather heavy, 1.5 kilograms. New technological solutions have enabled us to replace seven lenses with two, which cope with the same functions. The sight’s mass has been reduced dramatically. Its new version for the Ratnik gear is about 400 grams, Popov said. 
Technology of increasing the aiming range 
The holding company Shvabe has also developed a unique technology of cutting the reticle (sighting grid) of optical instruments that dramatically increases the aiming range. 
Before, the sighting grid was created by means of photolithography, a process of transferring geometric shapes on a mask to the surface of a silicon wafer. Sights made this way were enough to achieve desirable fire accuracy at a distance of no more than one kilometer. 
Now the sighting range has increased to two kilometers. At such a distance the size of the target is close to the thickness of crosshairs. And at a certain point the target becomes invisible. We’ve devised a technology of cutting the reticles with a laser beam. Sights manufactured the new way considerably increase the sighting range, Popov said. 
Upgraded sight Sodema to be used on T-90 main battle tank 
An upgraded sight Sodema, originally created for the weapon systems of the armored personnel carrier BMP-3 and other armored vehicles, will be used on the T-90 main battle tanks, Sergei Popov told TASS in an interview on the sidelines of the aerospace show MAKS-2019. 
We have plans for using this sight [Sodema] for upgrading the T-90 tanks, he said. 
Sodema was originally developed for the armored personnel carrier BMP-3, but it will be installed on other light armored vehicles and also used for upgrading foreign vehicles under military-technical cooperation programs, Popov said. 
Equipping armored vehicles with the new sights under the upgrade program will take an estimated two to six months. 
Sodema has begun to be produced serially. Reconfiguring it for use on other vehicles will be easy, he added. 
The international aerospace show MAKS-2019 is being held in Zhukovsky, near Moscow, on August 27-September 1 as organized by Russia’s Ministry of Industry and Trade and Rostec corporation. The show has attracted 827 companies from 33 countries, including 184 foreign firms. 
Ratnik combat gear 
Currently Russian troops use the combat gear Ratnik of a second generation. In the near future Ratnik will incorporate new elements being created for the next generation gear, Ratnik-3, such as medical sensors, land mine-proof footwear and an electronic visor enabling a soldier to shoot at the enemy from around a corner. Ratnik-3 will provide the same degree of protection but will be four kilograms lighter than its predecessor. Research is underway to complement the combat gear with an exoskeleton and a drone. 
Svabe holding 
Shvabe is a holding company affiliated with the government-run corporation Rostec. It consists of several dozen organizations, which constitute the backbone of Russia’s optical industry. The holding’s affiliates implement the full cycle of creating the newest optoelectronic and laser technologies for national defense, state and public security and civilian industries. 
New Ukrainian government formed by politicians with ties to the West, says expert 
On Thursday, the newly formed Ukrainian parliament began its work, appointing the Cabinet of Ministers 
A newly elected Ukraine's prime minister Alexey Goncharuk speaking during parliament session in Kiev 
KIEV, August 30. /TASS/. The new Ukrainian government is formed by members who worked under the former president and who have certain ties to Ukraine’s Western partners, head of the Ukrainian Institute for Analysis and Political Management Ruslan Bortnik told TASS on Friday. 
16 out of 18 new Cabinet members are people who worked in and with the old government of Groysman-Yatsenyuk, but weren’t major players. For example, Alexey Goncharuk [the new Prime Minister — TASS] was an adviser to former Deputy PM Stepan Kubiv. The same government could have worked under [former Ukrainian President] Pyotr Poroshenko, he said, noting that Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky failed to keep his promise to appoint new people to the government. 
The expert also noted that many Cabinet members have ties to the West: these people have received a Western education, worked in corresponding organizations and received grants. Absolutely everyone has expansive ties to the West. This is a pro-Western liberal government, composed by people who took on secondary or tertiary roles in 2014-2019, he added. 
According to Bortnik, the selection of candidates depended on two factors: Zelensky’s trust and support of Western partners, that is, the ability to work in the conditions of maintaining the support of the EU and the USA. 
The new government will be purely technical, the expert stated. In the political sphere, the work will fully depend on the president, while the policy of the previous government on social and economic issues will continue, as modified to keep in line with Zelensky’s stance, he added. 
Bortnik stressed that the new Cabinet cannot be considered incompetent, as most of its members are people with extensive governance experience. 
On Thursday, the newly formed Ukrainian parliament began its work. During the first session, the parliament appointed Ukraine’s new Cabinet of Ministers, along with PM Alexey Goncharuk. 
Putin, Abe to discuss peace treaty issues on September 5 
Abe is a traditional participant in the Eastern Economic Forum, the Kremlin aide recalled 
MOSCOW, August 30. /TASS/. Issues of the Russia-Japan peace treaty will be one of the topics to be discussed by Russian President Vladimir Putin and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe at their meeting on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum on September 5, Russian president’s aide Yuri Ushakov said on Friday. 
Puti will meet with Abe on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum on September 5. Naturally, they will discuss issues of bilateral cooperation and problems related to the very sensitive issue, i.e. that of the peace treaty, he said, adding the Moscow’s position on that matter is clear for everyone. 
Apart from it, according to the Kremlin spokesman, the two leaders will also focus on trade and economic cooperation between Russia and Japan. Thus, in his words, bilateral trade went up by 17% in 2018 and reached 21.3 billion US dollars, but dropped by 0.8% in the first six months of the current year. The two countries have good prospects for strengthening cultural and humanitarian ties and cooperation in such spheres as public health and peaceful use of nuclear energy. 
Russia and Japan also develop military cooperation. The chief of staff of Japan’s Ground Self-Defense Force visited Russia in May and the Russian Navy commander-in-chief plans to visit Japan soon. Joint anti-piracy drills in the Gulf of Aden are scheduled for December, Ushakov said, adding that the first such drills were held in November 2018. 
Abe is a traditional participant in the Eastern Economic Forum, the Kremlin aide added. 
Since the mid-20th century, Russia and Japan have been negotiating a peace treaty after World War II. The main stumbling block to this is the issue of the ownership of the southern Kuril Islands. After the end of World War II, all Kuril Islands were incorporated into the Soviet Union. However, Japan challenged the ownership of Iturup, Kunashir, Shikotan islands and a number of uninhibited islands of the Lesser Kuril Ridge called the Habomai Islands in Japan. 
In 1956, the Soviet Union and Japan signed a joint declaration on ceasing the state of war. The two countries resumed diplomatic and other relations, however no peace treaty has been signed until now. The Soviet Union committed to paper in the declaration its readiness to hand over Shikotan and Habomai to Japan as a gesture of good will after the peace treaty is ultimately signed. The declaration was ratified by the two countries’ parliaments on December 8, 1956. 
The Russian foreign ministry has repeatedly said that Russia’s sovereignty over these islands, which is committed to paper in international documents, cannot be called to question. 
Covertness of Russian standards complicates work with European space firms, says Airbus 
The task to solve it is challenging and extending far into the future, the head of Airbus Defense and Space in Russia said 
MOSCOW, September 3. /TASS/. The covertness of a number of Russian All-Union State Standards makes the joint work of Russian and European companies involved in the joint space production difficult, head of Airbus Defense and Space in Russia Vladimir Terekhov said on Tuesday. 
The fact that Russian All-Union State Standards are often classified creates additional difficulties, he said. 
The issue has been raised with Russian colleagues, Terekhov noted, adding that the task to solve it is challenging and extending far into the future. Either partial recognition of European standards in Russia or mutual recognition of certain All-Union State Standards may be a solution, he said. 
Two joint enterprises of Airbus Defense and Space and the Russian Federation currently operate on the Russian territory: Sinertek (with Russian Space Systems holding) and Energiya SAT (with Energiya Rocket and Space Corporation). 
Russian films rank fourth in China in popularity — deputy PM 
Russia is ahead of France, South Korea, Italy, and Spain in this regard, according to the official 
VLADIVOSTOK, September 3. /TASS/. Russian films rank fourth in popularity in cinemas in China, Russia’s Deputy Prime Minister — Chief of the Government Staff Konstantin Chuichenko said on Tuesday on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum. 
Five years ago there were almost no Russian films in China, now Russian films rank fourth among foreign films in terms of popularity in Chinese cinemas, Chuichenko noted. 
He added that in this regard Russia is ahead of France, South Korea, Italy, and Spain in China. 
The fifth Eastern Economic Forum will be held in Russia’s Far Eastern city of Vladivostok on September 4-6. Roscongress Foundation is the organizer of the event. TASS news agency is the event’s general information partner, the official photo hosting agency and moderator of the presentation zone focusing on the Russian Far East’s innovation opportunities. 
Ukrainian parliament approves bill stripping lawmakers of immunity 
After the document is signed by the Verkhovna Rada speaker and the president of Ukraine, the law will come into force starting January 1, 2020 
KIEV, September 3. /TASS/. Ukraine’s Verkhovna Rada (parliament) has approved the bill that strips lawmakers of immunity with 373 MPs voting in favor of the initiative (300 votes were needed for the bill to pass). 
Fraction Opposition Platform-For Life was the only one to vote against the bill, citing breach of regulations during the document’s approval. The fraction has withdrawn from voting. The rest of the MPs voted in favor of the bill. 
In June 2018, Ukraine’s Constitutional Court upheld that Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky’s bill on stripping lawmakers of diplomatic immunity falls in line with the constitution. The bill offers to remove Articles 1 and 3 from the Constitution of Ukraine, which introduce the concept of lawmakers’ immunity, making it impossible to prosecute them without the approval of parliament. 
After the document is signed by the Verkhovna Rada speaker and the president of Ukraine, the law will come into force starting January 1, 2020. 
Russian security chief, Azerbaijani president discuss security cooperation 
On Wednesday, Secretary of the Russian Security Council Nikolai Patrushev will hold consultations with Secretary of Azerbaijan’s Security Council Ramil Usubov and two countries’ officials 
MOSCOW, September 3. /TASS/. Issues of Russian-Azerbaijani cooperation in the sphere of security were in focus of a meeting between Secretary of the Russian Security Council Nikolai Patrushev and Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev, the press service of the Russian Security Council said on Tuesday. 
The sides discussed issues of Russian-Azerbaijani cooperation in the sphere of security, economic relations, cultural and humanitarian ties, and cooperation within the United Nations, the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and other international organizations, the press service said. 
On Wednesday, Patrushev will hold consultations with Secretary of Azerbaijan’s Security Council Ramil Usubov and officials from a number the two countries’ ministries and agencies. 
Fate of pilots of crashed fighter-bomber in southern Russia remains unknown, says source 
Earlier, the Russian Defense Ministry informed that a Sukhoi-25UB fighter-bomber has crashed in the Stavropol Region 
MOSCOW, September 3. /TASS/. /TASS/. Pilots of the Sukhoi-25 fighter-bomber that crashed in southern Russia earlier on Tuesday still have not been found, a law enforcement source told TASS. 
The plane was found, the pilots are not in the cabin. So far, this is the information we have, the source said, adding that the search is ongoing. 
Search and rescue workers have not find the pilots and their parachutes so far, a source in local power structure informed TASS. The plane fell in the Sovetsky District. There are no parachutes, no pilots, so far, we don’t know anything, the source said. 
A source in the emergency services informed that the crash site has been located. We’ve found the crater, we are not sure about the pilots yet. 
Earlier, the Russian Defense Ministry informed that a Sukhoi-25UB fighter-bomber has crashed in the Stavropol Region. On September 3, a Sukhoi-25UB fighter-bomber crashed during a routine training flight. The rescue service is searching for the two missing pilots. The plane carried no ammunition. It crashed in an unpopulated area causing no destruction on the ground, the Defense Ministry said. 
Russia’s Novatek may start supplying LNG to India 
Last year, Russia conducted first LNG supplies from the Yamal LNG plant to India 
VLADIVOSTOK, September 4. /TASS/. Russian independent gas producer Novatek has signed a memorandum of understanding on the supply and sale of LNG with the Indian Petronet LNG Limited, a TASS correspondent reported from the signing ceremony as part of the visit of Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the EEF. 
The document provides for the development of joint business on selling LNG in India and gas supplies. 
Earlier, Energy Minister Alexander Novak told TASS that Indian companies are interested in buying gas from Novatek’s future projects - Arctic LNG-2 and Arctic LNG-3. 
Arctic LNG-2 with a capacity of about 19.8 tonnes of LNG per year is Novatek’s second LNG producing plant after Yamal LNG. It will be based on the reserves of the Utrenneye field on the Gydan Peninsula in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous District. The launch of the plant is expected in 2022-2023. 
Arctic LNG-3 is another LNG project planned by Novatek. It will be based on the North Ob license area with reserves of at least 320 bln cubic meters and resources exceeding 900 bln cubic meters. 
Last year, Russia conducted first LNG supplies from the Yamal LNG plant to India. 
Russia’s opponents shift emphasis onto human rights as protests subside — senator 
Russia’s opponents have been making attempts to interfere in its elections, the senator claimed 
MOSCOW, September 4. /TASS/. Russia’s opponents, who have been making attempts to interfere in its elections, have shifted the focus onto the issue of human rights, because they understand that the previous theme is fading into the background and the related protests subside, the head of the Federation Council’s Interim Commission for the Protection of State Sovereignty and Prevention of Interference in Russia’s Internal Affairs, Andrei Klimov, said on Wednesday. 
As the protests have eased and their Western initiators lost interest in the Moscow City Duma elections as such, the emphasis has begun to be shifted from elections to the issue of human rights, Klimov said at a meeting of the working group on Wednesday. 
He remarked this was well seen in the latest statement by Mikhail Khodorkovsky, currently residing abroad, on the creation of a working group for the support of civil society in Russia, which, he said, is going to communicate with foreign political leaders and representatives of global businesses. Alongside this, Klimov noted, the Western mass media have launched a massive campaign to advertise the US documentary called Citizen K in which Mikhail Khodorkovsky for more than two hours comments on the last three decades of Russian history, in fact, repeating its interpretation by some government propaganda resources of the NATO countries, such as the Voice of America and Radio Liberty. 
The foreign opponents in July and August tried to use the Moscow City Duma elections to the maximum extent as a pretext for staging a number of protest demonstrations, including illegal ones, with the aim of discrediting the Russian leadership in the eyes of the foreign audience and also for attempts at destabilizing the political situation in the Russian capital, Klimov stated. Not only foreign media, but also official diplomatic instruments, for instance, the US embassy’s website were used in such attempts. 
Demonstrations in support of self-nominated candidates in the Moscow City Duma elections were held in the city on July 20, July 27, August 3 and August 10. The July 27 and August 3 demonstrations were unauthorized. On August 17, Moscow saw an authorized rally for fair elections by the Communist Party. At the unsanctioned rally in the center of Moscow on July 27 more than 1,000 were detained. On August 3, the police and national guardsmen arrested about 600 participants in illegal protests. 
Downtrend in international relations fails to be reversed as yet — Lavrov 
Lavrov stated that the United States and its closest allies were conducting a policy of undermining the international legal system that took shape after World War II 
MOSCOW, September 4. /TASS/. Instability in international relations aggravated again lately, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the multimedia information center Izvestia in an interview. An extract of the interview was published on the Izvestia website on Wednesday. 
There are many sayings on this score, such as: ‘Left to themselves, things tend to go from bad to worse.’ I would say that international relations continue to follow a stable trend of getting more complicated. All attempts to stop this process have failed so far, he said, when asked for a comment about the current state of affairs in world politics. 
Lavrov stated that the United States and its closest allies were conducting a policy of undermining the international legal system that took shape after World War II. 
This includes agreements achieved in recent decades in the field of strategic stability and arms control. In the early 2000s the anti-ballistic missile treaty was severed unilaterally. Now the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty has been ruined and there is no clarity about the outlook for prolonging the New START treaty. By and large the international legal structures that were created after World War II and have been developing on the basis of universal agreements are experiencing the hardest tests, Lavrov said. 
In its attempts to replace the well-established system of international law with some ‘rules-based international order’ the West each time invents new rules depending on its current needs and interests, and then dictates them to other countries, he remarked. 
REC, VTB to launch SME export potential development program 
An agreement to that effect was been signed on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum by REC General Director Andrey Slepnev and Deputy CEO of VTB Bank Denis Bortnikov 
VLADIVOSTOK, September 5. /TASS/. The Russian Export Center (REC) and VTB Bank launched a joint acceleration program to unveil export potential of small and medium enterprises. An agreement to that effect was been signed on the sidelines of the Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) by REC General Director Andrey Slepnev and Deputy CEO of VTB Bank Denis Bortnikov. 
According to the document, the dedicated online service of export support from experts is available on the Business-connect B2B platform of VTB Bank. The program is aimed at fostering comprehensive competencies in the field of foreign economic activity among representatives of businesses and creating the most favorable conditions for potential exporters and companies intending to expand geography and range of supplies. 
The new service of a one-stop shop principle includes assessment of export readiness level of each participant, assistance in development of an individual roadmap for entrepreneur's competencies development, and access to training materials and governmental support aids provided by REC. 
REC group has been systematically working with small and medium-sized businesses, creating a special ecosystem to support export of this category of entrepreneurs. The joint program with VTB Bank will become another acceleration mechanism in the line of services offered by Russian Export Center. In 2019, similar joint programs of REC and Ministry of Economic Development, Skolkovo Moscow School of Management and other financial organizations have already been launched and are successfully functioning, Andrey Slepnev said in a comment. 
Access to the Russian and the international markets is among the critical factor for development of small and medium businesses, Denis Bortnikov noted. The export accelerator which has been created by our Bank in cooperation with REC will help entrepreneurs to prepare themselves to expansion of the geography of their work, and boost their business development, he added. 
Russian Export Center to support supplies from major chemical project in Amur Region 
The agreement stipulates that credit guarantee and insurance support will be provided to Tekhnoleasing’s project on construction of a methanol production facility 
VLADIVOSTOK, September 5. /TASS/. Representatives of the Russian Export Center (REC) and Tekhnoleasing company (part of ESN Group) have signed a cooperation agreement aimed at supporting and developing the company's non-source export supplies, TASS reports from the signing ceremony held at the Eastern Economic Forum (EEF2019) on Thursday. 
Particularly, the agreement stipulates that credit guarantee and insurance support will be provided to Tekhnoleasing’s project on construction of a methanol production facility with the capacity of 1 mln tonnes in the town of Skovorodino in Russia’s Amur Region by Exiar and Roseximbank (members of REC Group). The plan is to export the products made at the facility to Asian-Pacific countries. Investments in the project are estimated at about $700 mln. 
REC Group already has experience in supporting major export-oriented infrastructure projects, such as Yamal LNG. According to the results of last year, chemical industry has become one of the drivers of peak non-resource exports, and we are committed to supporting projects with high-added value, where production involves application of advanced technologies, REC’s Managing Director for Customer Relations Maksim Kobin said. 
Meanwhile, General Director of Tekhnoleasing Vadim Medvedev noted that the company is “looking forward to efficient cooperation with REC.” “Our project has become resident of the Svobodny advanced special economic zone where the natural gas chemical cluster is being created. The products will be supplied to the markets of the Far East as well as to Asian-Pacific countries, he said 
Putin says Moscow-Kiev relations will inevitably normalize in the future 
The Russian president stated that negotiations on the exchange of detainees with Ukraine will be finalized soon 
VLADIVOSTOK, September 5. /TASS/. Relations between Russia and Ukraine will inevitably normalize in the future, Russian President Vladimir Putin told a plenary session of the Eastern Economic Forum. 
I think that this will inevitably happen in historical perspective. I mean full normalization of relations, because we are two parts of the one and the same people, and I have stated this many times, Putin said. 
Speaking on mending ties with Ukraine in the near future, Putin noted that this largely depends on the new Ukrainian leadership. 
Putin has stated that negotiations on the exchange of detainees with Ukraine will be finalized soon. 
Out of humanitarian considerations, we are approaching the finalization of the negotiations that we are carrying out with the official authorities as well, so I think that it will become known in the near future, Putin said. 
The president believes that the next prisoner exchange between Russia and Ukraine will be large-scale. He noted that it would be a positive step towards normalizing relations between the two countries. 
Regarding the exchange. I believe it will be rather large-scale, and that would be a good step forward towards normalization, Putin said. 
The Russian leader suggested that head of the political council of the Ukrainian party Opposition Platform - For Life Viktor Medvedchuk, who is present at the Forum’s plenary session will torture him on this issue. I know that he is especially concerned about several people who are staying in prisons in the Russian Federation, and it was rather difficult to us to make decisions on specific people, these specific people, the Russian president noted. 
Russian diplomats granted consular access to Russian detained in Italy, says ministry 
On August 30, Russian citizen Alexander Korshunov was detained in Naples’ airport on a warrant issued by the United States 
MOSCOW, September 5. /TASS/. Staffers of the Russian embassy in Italy have been granted consular access to Russian employee of the Russian state-owned JSC United Engine Corporation Alexander Korshunov who was detained in Naples at the US request, the Russian Foreign Ministry told TASS on Thursday. 
On August 30, Russian citizen Alexander Korshunov was detained in Naples’ airport on a warrant issued by the United States, the diplomatic agency said. Embassy staffers immediately left for Naples to defend the legal rights of the Russian citizen and were granted consular access to see him. 
He is receiving all the necessary help and legal assistance, the ministry said. The embassy is constantly in touch with the relevant Italian agency, the situation continues to be studied. 
Earlier on Thursday, the Russian State Corporation for Assistance to Development, Production and Export of Advanced Technology Industrial Product Rostec said it was studying the arrest of a Russian citizen, employee of the Russian JSC United Engine Corporation, at the US request in Italy. The staffer is receiving all the assistance necessary and legal support in particular, a spokesperson for the corporation told reporters. 
The corporation later told TASS that the detainee is Alexander Korshunov, JSC United Engine Corporation director of business development. 
When attending the plenary session of the fifth Eastern Economic Forum (EEF) Russian President Vladimir Putin was asked a question about the issue of Russian citizens being detained in third countries at the US request in the context of Korshunov’s arrest. Putin slammed it as a very bad practice and linked such arrests to possible competition. This is a very bad practice, it strains our state relations. I say this without a hint of a joke or irony. We often see no grounds for such hostile actions. I have every reason to believe that it often is connected to competition, Putin said. 
Nearly all experiments involving Russia’s Fedor robot were completed — designer 
Fears that it will be impossible to manipulate the robot in weightlessness proved to be untrue, he said 
MOSCOW, September 7. /TASS/. The experiment on board the International Space Station (ISS) involving Russia’s anthropomorphic robot Fedor was almost 100% complete, the chief scientist of the robot’s designer, Android Technology Company, said. 
The experiment was almost 100% complete. All the tasks were carried out, Igor Sokhin said on Friday night. 
Fears that it will be impossible to manipulate the robot in weightlessness proved to be untrue, he said, adding that a more detailed evaluation of the experiment's results will be prepared later. 
The Soyuz MS-14 manned spacecraft with no crew but an anthropomorphic robot on board undocked from the International Space Station (ISS) at 21:14 Moscow time on Friday. The reentry capsule landed in the designated area in steppes of Kazaskhtan on Saturday. 
Fedor’s space mission 
The Soyuz MS-14 spacecraft with Skybot F-850 humanoid robot (previously called FEDOR - Final Experimental Demonstration Object Research) on board docked with the International Space Station at 06:08 Moscow time on August 27. 
The robot Fedor (Final Experimental Demonstration Object Research or FEDOR) has been developed by Android Technology Company and the Advanced Research Fund on a technical assignment from Russia’s Emergencies Ministry. 
The android robot has received its own name of Skybot F-850 where the letter F stands for its affiliation with the Fedor family of robots. 
Putin, Nazarbayev focus on bilateral ties, regional, international issues 
Putin and Nazarbayev attended City Day festivities in Moscow and visited the renovated pavilion Kazakhstan at the outdoor exhibition center VDNKh 
MOSCOW, September 7. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin and Kazakhstan’s first President Nursultan Nazarbayev held talks on Saturday focusing on bilateral relations along with regional and international affairs, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov said. 
Putin and Nazarbayev attended City Day festivities in Moscow and visited the renovated pavilion Kazakhstan at the outdoor exhibition center VDNKh. 
Vladimir Putin and visiting Moscow Nursultan Nazarbayev keep up communicating. They held a meeting at the Kremlin and discussed the Russian-Kazakh partnership along with pressing regional and world affairs, Peskov said. 
According to the Kremlin spokesman, Kazakhstan’s first president and the Russian leader continued their conversation during the working dinner. 
14 persons detained at Roscosmos center, state corporation says 
All detained persons have been sent to a police department 
MOSCOW, September 8. /TASS/. Security officials at a scientific and testing center of rocket and space industry, part of Roscosmos state space corporation, have detained 14 persons allegedly plotting to enter the territory, a statement published on Roscosmos website said. 
In the morning of September 8, security services and security guards of Roscosmos state corporation detained at first two and later another twelve persons at a checkpoint and near the facility. All detained persons have been sent to a police department, the statement said. 
According to the statement, on September 7 the security services detained three persons who were illegally taking photos from the roof and inside the facility in order to later post them in the Internet. 
A group of up to 50 persons planned to enter the center’s territory overnight to Sunday with the goal of carrying out acts of vandalism against the equipment and other illegal acts. This incident has been reported to the Russian law enforcement agencies and Roscosmos management, the statement said. 
Hainan developing a number of projects to draw talented specialists to the island 
The Million Talent Project was launched in May 2018 
HAIKOU, September 6. /TASS/. An event dedicated to the development and creation of the Hainan Province's initiative for the island's development in innovations and talent management mechanism, proposed by the Organizational Department of the Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, seven ministries and departments. 
The Million Talent Project was launched in May 2018, when the Hainan authorities took a number of measures to facilitate the implementation of the provincial development plan, announcing the attraction of millions of talents to the island, namely, five projects were created to draw talented professionals and seven projects — to train them. As a result, in 2018 about 30,000 new talented specialists were expected to begin working on Hainan. 
The reforms to encourage the island's openness, as well the creation of the Hainan Free Trade Zone (port), allowed the Province to attract talented people not only from China, but also from all over the world. The other day, the Hainan Provincial Public Security Department announced an improvement in its policy to attract talented personnel from abroad aimed at creating a relaxed, efficient and convenient environment for entry and long-term stay of foreigners in Qiongzhou County. Foreigners who have been working in Qiongzhou for a long time are provided with more stable living conditions in order to encourage them to explore their potential, and a number of effective measures have been worked out to annually attract foreign students from world's best educational institutions. In addition, the authorities announced a course aimed at attracting investments from Chinese citizens owning other citizenship, with the aim of investing their funds in the island's economy. 
China’s State Council Premier to visit Russia September 16-18 
Premier of the Chinese State Council Li Keqiang will take part in the 24th regular meeting between the two countries’ heads of governments 
BEIJING, September 9. /TASS/. Premier of the State Council of the People's Republic of China Li Keqiang will pay an official visit to Russia on September 16-18 to take part in a regular meeting of the two countries’ heads of governments, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said on Monday. 
At the invitation of head of Russian government Dmitry Medvedev, Premier of the Chinese State Council Li Keqiang will pay an official visit to Russian on September 16-18 and will take part in the 24th regular meeting between the two countries’ heads of governments, the diplomat pointed out. 
This regular meeting between the head of governments is a great platform to coordinate our practical cooperation and provide assistance to it. This mechanism has worked continuously for 23 years, she underlined. 
The upcoming meeting is especially significant since it’s the first of its kind held since our bilateral relations entered a new era. Premier of the Chinese State Council Li Keqiang and his Russian counterpart will deliver a joint statement for the press, will take part in the document signing ceremony and a celebratory banquet. We are certain that Premier of the Chinese State Council Li Keqiang’s visit will reenergize the bilateral relations and will reinforce our efforts to counter external challenges, the Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson concluded. 
Ukrainian ex-lawmaker Savchenko says unable to find job due to criminal record 
Savchenko said she wanted 'a job offering less human contact and more physical work' 
KIEV, September 10. /TASS/. Nadezhda Savchenko, a former lawmaker of Ukraine’s Verkhovna Rada, told the NewsOne TV channel on Monday she has so far been unable to find a job due to her previous convictions. 
I don’t think that every employer would be eager to give work to Nadezhda Savchenko. That’s why I narrowed down my search to a job offering less human contact and more physical work. This is what I want for myself, she said. 
Savchenko, a former Ukrainian Air Force pilot, said she would try to pass a medical examination for pilots, but was pessimistic about the possibility of entering service with the Ukrainian armed forces again. 
Given my criminal record, who at the Ukrainian armed forces will agree to employ me again? Who will put a plane - a plane with a bomb - into my hands? she said, joking bitterly. Joking aside, a pilot should be in proper health, and mine was ruined by detention. I don’t know if I will be able to pass the medical examination for a pilot, but at least I will try to do that. 
Last year, the Ukrainian Prosecutor General’s office charged Savchenko and head of the Officer Corps organization Vladimir Ruban with an attempted coup d’etat in the country, an attempted terror attack and arms trafficking. According to investigators, she and Ruban plotted terror attacks in the parliament’s building and the government quarters. On March 22, 2018, Verkhovna Rada stripped Savchenko of parliamentary immunity and issued an arrest warrant for her, after which she was taken into custody. Her pre-trial restriction was repeatedly extended. 
On April 16, 2019, Savchenko and Ruban were released from custody in the courtroom. The court made this decision as the earlier established arrest term had expired and a new one had not been set. 
During the Ukrainian parliamentary elections this summer, Savchenko ran in a single-seat district in the Donetsk Region, but was unable to secure a seat getting only eight votes in her support. 
Before the beginning of her political career in Ukraine, Savchenko, a former Ukrainian military pilot who had taken an active part in Kiev’s military operation in eastern Ukraine, was detained in Russia in June 2014. She had been sentenced to 22 years in jail over complicity in the killing of two Russian journalists in east Ukraine. 
She spent nearly two years in the Russian custody and was pardoned by Russian President Vladimir Putin on May 25, 2016. Upon her return to Kiev, Savchenko began an active political career as a member of the Ukrainian parliament. 
2019 Ancient Castle Dialogue Between East and West Held in Jincheng, Shanxi Province 
JINCHENG, China, Sept. 10, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Sponsored by the Jincheng Culture and Tourism Bureau and organized by China National Travel magazine, the 2019 Ancient Castle Dialogue Between East and West was hosted September 6-8. The purpose of the dialogue was to discuss the means of protecting and developing cultural heritage as well as exchanging information on the preservation of ancient castles between countries in Asia and Europe. 
Jincheng, known as China's City of Ancient Castles, has one of the most unique and beautiful ancient castle clusters in the world. Known as the Taihang castles, the cluster is made up of 117 castles and provides the city of Jincheng with a wealth of ancient heritage and pride. Having such a unique feature made Jincheng the perfect host city for an event focused on the upkeep of castles and their historical significance to various countries around the world. 
The diplomats of the embassies of Lithuania, Hungary, and Ukraine, UNWTO experts, domestic specialists in relevant fields, and representatives of ancient castles attended the dialogue to both educate attendees on various aspects of ancient castles as well as discuss the present and future of the field. During the dialogue, Jincheng Municipal Government and the countries of Europe reached a consensus on ancient castle cultural exchange and jointly announced the Jincheng Manifesto. This manifesto marks a first step in the exchange between Europe and China in the field of castle preservation and education. 
Themed Common Mission, Eternal Friendship, the dialogue succeeded in bringing together representatives from multiple countries and castle traditions to better determine how to safeguard, develop, and pass down culturally significant architecture and other forms of legacy. 
Taliban threatens to take up arms if Washington rejects negotiations 
Earlier, US President Donald Trump stated that he had cancelled meetings with the Taliban representatives 
MOSCOW, September 10. /TASS/. The Taliban movement (outlawed in Russia) may start combat actions if the United States ultimately refuses to carry out negotiations with the movement’s representatives on the settlement of the situation in Afghanistan, said spokesman for the Taliban movement Zabiullah Mujahid, according to Agence France-Presse (AFP). 
We had two ways to end the occupation in Afghanistan, one was jihad and fighting, the other was talks and negotiations, the Taliban spokesman told AFP. If Trump wants to stop talks, we will take the first way and they will soon regret it, he added. 
On September 2, US Representative for Afghanistan Reconciliation Zalmay Khalilzad met with Afghanistan’s President Ashraf Ghani and presented him a project of peaceful reconciliation reached between the Taliban and Washington’s administration. On Saturday, US President Donald Trump stated that he had cancelled meetings with the Taliban representatives and Ghani that were scheduled for September 8 and also refused to participate in negotiations on peaceful reconciliation with the Taliban after a terror attack on Kabul, which the movement’s supporters claimed responsibility for. 
During the past year the US and the Taliban carried out eight rounds of negotiations at which they discussed the withdrawal of the army, ceasefire, the prospects of future inter-Afghan relations and the guarantees that Afghanistan will not become a ground for international terrorism. On August 24, the sides’ representatives reached an agreement on temporary parameters of the foreign forces’ withdrawal from Afghanistan’s territory during the ninth round of negotiations in Doha. 
Iran’s steps to scale back on JCPOA commitments reversible — president 
He added that if agreements with Europe are finalised, we are ready to return to our JCPOA obligations 
TEHRAN, September 11. /TASS/. Iran’s third step scaling back on its commitments to the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) on the Iranian nuclear program are reversible, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani during the telephone call he had with French President Emmanuel Macron on Wednesday. 
Iran's third step is under the supervision of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), and it is reversible, the president’s official website quotes Rouhani as saying. He added that if agreements with Europe are finalised, we are ready to return to our JCPOA obligations. 
According to the Iranian president, the JCPOA was a great opposrtunity for Europe to invest in the Iranian economy. The EU and France in particular should take steps to preserve the nuclear deal, he underlined. 
On September 6, Tehran launched the first step of scaling back on its commitments to the nuclear deal, which meant that the country refused to observe the restrictions placed on nuclear research. The Iranian side claimed that the actions were prompted by the European parties not complying with their obligations. 
The problem of the Iranian nuclear dossier exacerbated dramatically after the United States unilaterally withdrew from the JCPOA on May 8, 2018 and introduced American economic sanctions in the oil export sphere against Tehran. Exactly one year later, on May 8, 2019, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani announced that Tehran was suspending its part of the obligations on the nuclear deal and gives other parties to it six months to return to its implementation. 
The JCPOA was signed between Iran, five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (Russia, the United Kingdom, China, the United States and France) and Germany in 2015. The deal limited Iran’s nuclear development in exchange for lifting the UN, US and EU sanctions. Iran pledged not to enrich uranium above the level of 3.67% for 15 years and maintain enriched uranium stockpiles at the level not exceeding 300 kg, as well as not to build new heavy-water reactors, not to accumulate heavy water and not to develop nuclear explosive devices. 
US planned its interference in Russian domestic affairs back in 2017, says prosecution 
In 2019, three foreign NGOs were listed as undesirable in Russia 
MOSCOW, September 12. /TASS/. The US authorities were already planning to meddle in the Russian domestic affairs back in 2017, head of the Legal Department of the Prosecutor General’s Office Artur Zavalunov told a working group meeting at the Federation Council (Russia’s upper chamber) on Thursday. 
We conducted a legal analysis of the Magnitsky Act adopted in 2018. In accordance with section 277 of this US federal law, I would like to draw attention to its provision, which envisages allocation of funds to a foundation aimed at countering Russia’s influence, which amounted to $250 million in 2018-2019. To employ cyber attacks in NATO and EU countries. In other words, back in 2017 the Magnitsky Act was applied because the US predicted that it would plan to support media outlets and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to meddle in our domestic affairs, he said. 
Zavalunov pointed out that a decision was made to declare the activities of three NGOs undesirable in 2019 because their activities were aimed at interfering in Russia’s domestic affairs, particularly the election campaigns, and influencing elections — Free Russia Foundation (US), Ukrainian World Congress (Canada) and Atlantic Council of the United States (US). 
These institutes hold anti-Russian information campaigns, discredit our country, form public opinions suggesting that power change is needed, lay groundwork to destabilize social and political environment and escalate protest sentiments in society, carry out projects to undermine the state’s economic foundation and tailor Russia’s image of an aggressor state, he said. 
On June 28, 2019, the Russian Ministry of Justice placed the US Free Russia Foundation on the list of undesirable organizations. On July 17, the Canadian Ukrainian World Congress also made the list. On July 29, the ministry added the Atlantic Council of the United States. 
Russia’s Varyag missile cruiser hits simulated target 500 km away 
Over 20 vessels, as well as Tu-142, Il-38 and MiG-31 aircraft, were deployed to ensure the safety of the exercises 
MOSCOW, September 14. /TASS/. During exercises in the Pacific Ocean, Russia’s Varyag missile cruiser used a Vulkan anti-ship cruise missile to strike a target at a distance of some 500 km, Pacific Fleet spokesman Nikolai Voskresensky told reporters on Saturday. 
The Pacific fleet flagship, the Order of Nakhimov Guards missile cruiser Varyag launched a cruise missile of the Vulkan system at a target ship at a distance of about 500 kilometers, he said. According to live recording equipment data, the missile hit the target at the designated time. 
During the exercises, small missile boats R-14 and R-18 fired two Moskit supersonic ramjet powered anti-ship cruise missiles at a target over 130 km away. 
Over 20 vessels, as well as Tu-142, Il-38 and MiG-31 aircraft, were deployed to ensure the safety of the exercises. 
Russia won’t need contract with Kiev to supply gas to EU via Ukraine 2020 - source 
Ukraine has undertaken commitments as a member of the European energy community to implement in its legislation by January 1, 2020, a source in the European energy said 
BRUSSELS, September 15. /TASS/. For uninterrupted gas transit to the EU in 2020 Ukraine and Russia won’t have to sign a new gas contract provided that Kiev meets its commitments on implementing European energy rules in its legislation, a source in the European energy sector told TASS. 
According to the source, Kiev has undertaken commitments as a member of the European energy community to implement in its legislation by January 1, 2020 European energy norms, including on holding auctions of reserving transit capacities. 
Thus, even if there is no contract, Ukrainian gas and transport system’s operator will be obliged to put up for an auction its transit capacities, which Gazprom will be able to buy for carrying out short-term and medium-term supplies. So, even the lack of a contract won’t lead to suspending gas transit to the EU, the expert said. 
Russia finishes second stage of S-400 deliveries to Turkey - defense ministry 
MOSCOW, September 15. /TASS/. Russia has finished the second stage of deliveries of a regiment set of S-400 air defense missile systems by transport planes to Turkey as envisaged by the contract, the Russian defense ministry said on Sunday. 
On September 15, 2019, as part of the implementation of contract liabilities, Russian military transport planes finished the second stage of deliveries of components of the S-400 air defense missile system to Turkey, the ministry said. 
Turkey’s defense ministry reported the completion of the second phase earlier. 
The first reports about the talks between Russia and Turkey on the deliveries of S-400 air defense missile systems emerged in November 2016. Russia confirmed in September 2017 that the relevant contract worth $2.5 billion had been signed. Under the contract, Ankara will get a regiment set of S-400 air defense missile systems (two battalions). The deal also envisages partial transfer of production technology to the Turkish side. 
Deliveries began on July 12. During the first stage, from July 12 to July 25, 30 military transport planes delivered S-400 components to Turkey’s Muret airbase. The second stage began on August 27. 
Russia’s S-400 Triumf (NATO reporting name: SA-21 Growler) is the latest long-range antiaircraft missile system that went into service in 2007. It is designed to destroy aircraft, cruise and ballistic missiles, including medium-range missiles, and surface targets. The system can hit aerodynamic targets at a range of up to 400 kilometers (249 miles) and tactical ballistic targets flying at a speed of 4.8 km/s (3 mi/s) at a distance of up to 60 kilometers (37 miles). Such targets include cruise missiles, tactical and strategic aircraft and ballistic missile warheads. 
The system’s radars detect aerial targets at a distance of up to 600 kilometers (373 miles). The system’s 48N6E3 surface-to-air missiles can hit aerodynamic targets at altitudes of 10,000-27,000 meters and ballistic threats at altitudes of 2,000-25,000 meters. 
Czech man chains himself to Soviet marshal’s monument in Prague to protest its removal 
The Russian Foreign Ministry on Friday expressed indignation over the decision to relocate the monument and warned that such a step would not remain without retaliation 
PRAGUE, September 17. /TASS/. A citizen of Czech republic chained himself to the monument of Soviet Marshal Ivan Konev in Prague in protest against the municipal authorities’ decision to move it to a different location. 
The controversy surrounding the monument to Konev, caused by the Prague District 6 municipal authorities’ decision, affects me personally, the civil activist told reporters. My grandfather fought in World War II, that’s why this matter is definitely of my concern. 
The man, who arrived to the capital from the north of the country, said his views were neither pro-Russian, nor pro-American. 
The Communist Party of Bohemia and Moravia, whose support in parliament is important for the country’s government, urged the Cabinet on Monday to hinder plans to relocate the monument. 
Monument relocation plans 
The municipal council of the Prague-6 municipal district on Thursday voted to relocate the monument to Konev and to create a Prague Liberation Memorial instead. The municipality is still to select a site where the monument to Marshal Konev will be moved. 
The Russian Foreign Ministry on Friday expressed indignation over the decision to relocate the monument and warned that such a step would not remain without retaliation. 
The decision made at the municipal level is capable of becoming a major irritant in bilateral relations and overshadow their climate and it will certainly not remain without retaliation. We expect that the initiators of the unprecedented step will change their mind and realize all the consequences of this outrage, the ministry said. 
The monument was placed in Prague in 1980 on the occasion of the 35th anniversary of the city’s liberation by the Red Army’s forces under Marshal Konev’s command. The monument is a property of the municipal authorities. 
Russia is ready to further develop cooperation with China in all areas 
According to PM Dmitry Medvedev, his talks with Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang showed that the Russian-Chinese comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation has entered a new stage 
ST.PETERSBURG, September 17. /TASS/. Russia is ready to continue developing cooperation with China in all areas, Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev said at a press conference following the 24th regular meeting of the heads of government of the Russian Federation and China. 
At the meeting, we exchanged views on key areas of cooperation, touched upon the issues of interconnection between the EAEU and China’s One Belt-One Road initiative, he said. 
Of course, we are committed to deepen cooperation further in all areas, achieving concrete mutually beneficial results, he added. 
According to Medvedev, his talks with Chinese Prime Minister Li Keqiang showed that the Russian-Chinese comprehensive partnership and strategic cooperation has entered a new stage. 
We maintain a close dialogue. Our bilateral practical ties are expanding, filling up with new content. This is especially significant in the year when we celebrate the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between our country and China, Medvedev said. 
The Russian Premier expressed his gratitude to his counterpart for a constructive and friendly approach to work. He added that this approach was written in a joint communique adopted following the talks. 
Medvedev noted that the talks resulted in signing a package of agreements, consisting of almost two dozen documents. 
These are, indeed, significant documents. I would specifically mention those relate to cooperation on science and space, while the Economic Development Ministry and the Ministry of Commerce (of China) have adopted a roadmap to stimulate and develop mutual trade in goods and services until 2024, Medvedev said. 
He also drew attention to a number of commercial agreements signed in such sectors as of petrochemicals, production of new generation synthetic materials, creation of a joint pharmaceutical enterprise, etc. 
The Russian Prime Minister praised the countries’ bilateral cooperation in energy sector. He recalled that the construction of the gas pipeline from Russia to China along the eastern route was almost completed. At the end of the year, it will be put into operation, Medvedev said. 
According to him, plans for joint production of a long-range aircraft and a heavy helicopter are under approval. 
We are consistently working to remove barriers that limit the development of agricultural trade. It concerns the supply of soybeans, wheat and a number of other crops to China, he added. 
US vice president, Ukrainian leader discuss Zelensky’s upcoming meeting with Trump 
He also met with Prime Minister of Moldova Maia Sandu to hash over issues of economic development and energy security 
WASHINGTON, September 19. /TASS/. US Vice President Michael Pence held a phone conversation with Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky to discuss his upcoming talks with US President Donald Trump, the White House said. 
The conversation with Zelensky focused on President Trump’s upcoming meeting with President Zelensky next week at the UN General Assembly in New York. 
The Vice President reiterated the United States’ unwavering commitment to Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, the statement reads. The Vice President commended President Zelensky’s administration for its bold action to tackle corruption through legislative reforms, and offered full U.S. support for those efforts. 
Meeting with Moldovan premier 
In a separate development, Pence met with Prime Minister of Moldova Maia Sandu to hash over issues of economic development and energy security on Wednesday. 
The Vice President met today with Prime Minister of Moldova Maia Sandu at the White House, the press service issued a statement. The leaders also discussed ways to enhance Moldova’s economic development and energy security. 
According to the statement, Pence commended the Prime Minister’s leadership role in promoting progress on judicial, governance, and security reforms. 
The Vice President reiterated the United States’ full and continued support for Moldova’s new government, and expressed hope it will remain committed to continuing reform efforts, the document reads. These efforts include the timely appointment of an independent Prosecutor General, legislation to ensure independent government institutions, strong anti-corruption measures, and free and fair electoral processes in the lead-up to local elections in October 2019. 
Russia looking forward to cooperating with new members of IAEA Board of Governors 
The board will be electing a new IAEA director general after former IAEA leader, Japanese diplomat Yukiya Amano passed away in summer 
VIENNA, September 19. /TASS/. Russia is looking forward to fruitful cooperation with new members elected to the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), Permanent Representative of Russia to International Organizations in Vienna Mikhail Ulyanov said on Thursday. 
We welcome new IAEA Governors from Estonia, Ghana, Greece, Hungary, Kuwait, Mongolia, Nigeria, Norway, Panama, Paraguay, Saudi Arabia. We count on close cooperation with them in the Board of Governors, including in the process of elections of a new Director General, he wrote on his official Twitter page. 
We would like to thank for cooperation the outgoing IAEA Governors from Armenia, Chile, Indonesia, Jordan, Kenya, Portugal, Republic of Korea, Serbia, Sudan and Venezuela, whose tour of duty in the Board of Governors expired, he added. 
The Board of Governors saw its new members elected in the course of the 63rd IAEA General Conference in Vienna. It is the board that will be soon tasked with electing a new IAEA director general after former IAEA leader, Japanese diplomat Yukiya Amano passed away. The following candidates are in the run to become IAEA Director General — IAEA Acting Director General Cornel Feruta (Romania), Permanent Representative to International Organizations in Vienna Rafael Grossi (Argentina), Executive Secretary of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization Lassina Zerbo (Burkina Faso), and head of Slovakia's Nuclear Regulatory Authority Marta Ziakova. 
Each candidate needs to secure the support of a majority of governors. The new head of the IAEA will be elected and appointed in October, assuming their duties no later than January 1, 2020. 
Construction of Russia’s northernmost wind farm begins near Murmansk 
Construction of the wind farm, which is the first wind farm in the Murmansk Region, is planned be completed in 2021 
MURMANSK, September 19. /TASS/. An official ceremony to begin construction of Russia’s northernmost wind farm was organized near a road connecting Murmansk and Teriberka. The ceremony featured the Murmansk Region’s Acting Governor Andrei Chibis and Enel Russia’s Director General Carlo Palasciano Villamagna. 
Construction of the wind farm, which is the first wind farm in the Murmansk Region, is planned be completed in 2021. Investments in the project will make 237 million euro. The wind farm will have positive effect on the region’s ecological situation, Enel Russia’s representative said during the ceremony, adding the new power generating complex will be an input in the Russian energy system. 
In 2017, Enel Russia won a tender to build the wind farm. The project will be implemented by the company’s daughter company - Enel Rus Wind Kola, in cooperation with the Murmansk Region’s Ministry of Energy and the Corporation for the Murmansk Region’s Development. 
The wind park’s capacity will be 201 MW, produced by 57 turbines. The complex will generate about 750 GWh a year. The location on the Barents Sea is only reasonable, as the share of windy days is big there. By using the wind farm, the Murmansk Region will cut carbon emissions. 
The region’s acting governor stressed the project would offer new jobs, the regional budget would receive more tax payments. He expressed confidence the company would participate in upgrade of the regional energy system so that the Murmansk Region could cut its dependence on black oil fuel and could have more reliable energy sources. We invite the company to invest in upgrade of the systems of energy and heat supplies, he said. 
Lavrov has second phone call in the day with German counterpart to discuss Donbass 
MOSCOW, September 19./TASS/. The Russian and German foreign ministers, Sergey Lavrov and Heiko Maas, have had a second phone call in the day to discuss the implementation of the Steinmeier formula in Donbass after Kiev had rejected it at a session of the Contact Group, the Russian Foreign Ministry said in a report on Thursday. 
The ministers continued discussing ways for putting into practice the decisions of the Normandy Four format summits in Paris and Berlin in 2015-2016 as to confirming the ‘Steinmeier formula’, as well as the disengagement of forces in the pilot sections in Petrovskoye and Zolotoye, the ministry said. 
They discussed the situation after the Kiev delegation derailed at a session of the Contact Group in Minsk on September 18 work to coordinate the respective proposals earlier approved at a meeting of the advisers to the Normandy Four leaders, it said. 
The ministers agreed to stay in close touch to ensure the unconditional implementation of the Minsk package of measures for the settlement in Ukraine, the Foreign Ministry added. Lavrov also warmly congratulated Maas on his birthday that he celebrates today, it said. 
Minsk hosted a new meeting of the Contact Group to settle the conflict in eastern Ukraine on Wednesday, which fell short of its expectations. At the very last moment, the Ukrainian delegation refused to sign the so-called Steinmeier formula. The document was coordinated on September 11 by the political advisers to the Normandy Four leaders and the Contact Group was expected to initial it. 
By doing so, Kiev derailed also the adoption of an agreement on the disengagement of forces in Petrovskoye and Zolotoye, since security issues must be synchronized with political issues, Russia’s Plenipotentiary Representative to the Group Boris Gryzlov said after the meeting. The earlier planned Normandy Quartet summit is also up in the air. 
Steinmeier formula 
In late 2015, then German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier put forward a plan that later became known as the Steinmeier formula. This roadmap stipulates that a special status be granted to Donbass in accordance with the Minsk deal. In particular, the document envisages that Ukraine’s special law on local self-governance will take effect in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions on a temporary basis on the day of local elections, becoming permanent after the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) issues a report on the vote’s results. 
‘Passing the torch of an amazing project': Prokhorov on selling the Brooklyn Nets to Tsai 
Russian magnate Mikhail Prokhorov added that he would continue rooting for the club and will be attending the games hoping that the Brooklyn Nets would eventually win the NBA Championship 
ST. PETERSBURG, September 20. /TASS, Andrey Kartashov/. Russian magnate Mikhail Prokhorov told TASS that he believed it would have been unwise to refuse an offer ‘too good to pass up’ from Canadian billionaire Joseph Tsai to purchase the NBA’s Brooklyn Nets basketball club. 
Prokhorov closed the deal on Wednesday to sell his Brooklyn Nets and Barclays Center to Joseph Tsai for a record-setting price tag of $2.35 billion, a sum currently unparalleled in the history of sports. For instance, US billionaire David Tepper earlier purchased the NFL’s Carolina Panthers team for $2.2 billion, while another American tycoon, Tilman Fertitta, acquired the NBA’s Houston Rockets in 2017 also for $2.2 billion, which was a record sum in the history of the NBA up until now. 
It’s been an amazing project from a business point of view, Prokhorov said in an interview with TASS. I don’t know of another investment that has shown this kind of return in a relatively short period, so it was simply too good to pass up. 
Having the chance to be a part of the NBA and see everything up close has been tremendously beneficial not only because they have a business model that makes sport profitable, but because they have taken every aspect of the sport to the highest level, Prokhorov continued. 
This includes everything from scouting to physical training to medical treatment, the 54-year-old businessman said. I’m taking with me a treasure trove of knowledge which is already being passed on to my friends and colleagues in basketball here at home. 
Joseph Tsai, 55, is the executive vice chairman and co-founder of China’s biggest e-commerce company Alibaba Group. The Internet holding manages such marketplaces as Aliexpress, Tmall.com, Taobao.com and Forbes business magazine has put Tsai’s fortune at $9.9 billion. 
Prokhorov hopes Brooklyn Nets will be crowned NBA champs 
The Brooklyn Nets announced this summer that it acquired NBA’s ten-time All-Star light forward Kevin Durant, who holds two NBA Champion rings, and six-time All-Star point guard Kyrie Irving, who also possesses an NBA Champion ring after winning it with the Cleveland Cavaliers in 2016. The club also signed up three-time All-NBA center DeAndre Jordan, who currently holds NBA’s record of the best career field goal percentage (67.4%). 
Mikhail Prokhorov said he believed that the Brooklyn Nets is now one of the strongest in the prestigious US-based basketball association. 
The Brooklyn Nets are now in the best shape they have ever been in during my tenure, and for most of the years before that, Prokhorov told TASS. So I’m passing the torch to new ownership with a clear conscience. 
The Russian billionaire added that he would continue rooting for the club and will be attending the games hoping that the Brooklyn Nets would eventually win the NBA Championship. 
Even though I’ve sold the team, I will remain its Number 1 fan and will continue to attend games from time to time. I hope to be at their championship win sometime in the near future, and I fully believe that will happen, he added. 
Last season, Brooklyn Nets finished sixth in the NBA’s Eastern Conference qualifying for the playoffs, where it lost to Philadelphia 1-4 in the first-round series. 
Prokhorov scooped up 80% of the then New Jersey Nets in 2009 for $223 million. He also repaid $160 million of the club’s debts back then and became the first foreign owner of a basketball team in the American NBA. After the deal was closed, the team moved to a new arena in Brooklyn, changing their uniforms’ colors and name to the Brooklyn Nets. 
He owned 80% of the Brooklyn Nets and 45% of Barclays Center until December 2015, when he gained full control of the team and the sports arena. According to Bloomberg reports at that time, the Russian tycoon paid an additional $875 million in December 2015 for the club and $825 million for Barclays Center. 
Slovakia marks 75th anniversary of start of Red Army’s operation against Nazi invaders 
Slovak Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini, government ministers, members of parliament, political and public dignitaries, veterans, school and university students paid tribute to the Soviet soldiers 
PRAGUE, September 21. /TASS/. Festivities marking the 75th anniversary of start of the Red Army’s operation to liberate Slovakia from Nazi invaders took place in the country’s northeastern village of Kalinov. 
Slovak Prime Minister Peter Pellegrini, government ministers, members of parliament, political and public dignitaries, veterans, school and university students paid tribute to the Soviet soldiers. 
First and foremost, we are grateful to the Red Army for liberation from Nazis, as it lost the highest numbers of people in the fight for our freedom, Pellegrini said cited by the Slovak radio. 
He warned against forgetting the feat of Soviet soldiers. In recent years, he said, some forces have been gaining strength, and they are determined to undermine the Red Army’s part in defeat of Nazi Germany. 
Regrettably, we are living through the times when it has become fashionable to reject history, to distort [historic] facts appeasing the present-day political objectives. We are horrified to hear some trumped-up narrations of history, which are designed to fit in some speculation connected to political interests [of certain politicians and groups supporting them], the prime minister said. 
Pellegrini recalled that nearly 100,000 Soviet soldiers died for freedom of the Slovaks. At least 1,200 Soviet troops were killed in just one battle for Kalinov. 
Kalinov was the first Slovak inhabited locality retaken by the Red Army. Nazi invaders were ousted by the 1st Guards Army on September 21, 1944. 
Russia, Brazil eye joint ISS projects - Education Ministry 
Pontes, Brazil’s current minister of science, technology, innovation and communications, is the first Brazilian to go to space 
Russian First Deputy Education and Science Minister Grigory Trubnikov 
RIO DE JANEIRO, September 21. /TASS/. Russia and Brazil might consider joint projects on aboard the International Space Station (ISS), Russian First Deputy Education and Science Minister Grigory Trubnikov told TASS after his talks with Astronaut Marcos Pontes. 
Pontes, Brazil’s current minister of science, technology, innovation and communications, is the first Brazilian to go to space. In 2006, he launched aboard Soyuz-TMA8 to the ISS on a ten-day mission. 
Taking into account his expertise and our capabilities, I think this issue should be mulled over seriously, said Trubnikov, Academician of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
According to the scientist, Pontes and he have the same vision of the Russian-Brazilian projects on the ISS. 
Trubnikov pointed out that the talks in Brazil’s Campinas resulted in an agreement aimed to resume bilateral projects in science and technology. Brazilian representatives seek to visit Russia in 2020 to restore practical interaction that was severed a few years ago, due to structural changes in the government of that South American state. 
Brasilia eyes Russia’s expertise in telemedicine and energy, including nuclear technology. This aspiration for innovations meets the expectations of Moscow, Trubnikov said. 
Russia’s Kalibr cruise missile finetuned after Syria campaign - Shoigu 
Russian Defense Minister noted that an instruction to finetune the missile had been given by President Vladimir Putin 
MOSCOW, September 22. /TASS/. Russia’s Kalibr cruise missile was finetuned after it had been used during the campaign in Syria, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said in his interview with Moskovsky Komsomolets published on Sunday. 
The minister noted that an instruction to finetune the Kalibr missile had been given by Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
Shoigu explained that earlier it took so long to upload a flight mission for the Kalibr missile that a target could be missed. Today it takes much less to upload a flight mission for Kalibr, the minister said. 
In total, some 300 types of weapons have been finetuned given Russia’s experience in Syria and another 12 pieces, which had been earlier considered as promising, were taken out of production and service, Shoigu noted. 
Russian military to conduct inspections in Latvia, Denmark - newspaper 
The Russian inspectors will visit training ranges and attend briefings about military bases located in these areas and military activities taking place there 
MOSCOW, September 23. /TASS/. The Russian military will carry out inspections in Latvia on September 23-26 and in Denmark on September 24-27, Russia’s Krasnaya Zvezda (or Red Star) newspaper reported on Monday, adding that the mission would be conducted in accordance with the 2011 Vienna Document on Confidence-and Security-Building Measures. 
On September 23-26, a group of Russian inspectors will carry out a mission in Latvia, in an area covering about 16,000 square kilometers. In addition, on September 24-27, a group of Russian experts plans to inspect an area in Denmark, which would cover about 16,000 square kilometers, the statement reads. 
The Russian inspectors will visit training ranges and attend briefings about military bases located in these areas and military activities taking place there, including the Silver Arrow military exercise involving Latvia, Albania, Canada, Lithuania, Poland, the Czech Republic, Spain, Italy, Slovakia, Slovenia, Montenegro and Estonia. 
According to the 2011 Vienna Document, every member state of the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) has the right to conduct inspections in other member states. The inspecting country can also invite other states to participate in this activity. 
Hainan to host first Entrepreneurship Summit Forum 
The event will be held in the city of Haikou 
HAIKOU, September 22. /TASS/. More than 300 businessmen, experts, entrepreneurs, and representatives of regional and central authorities will participate in the first Entrepreneurship Summit Forum, which will be held in the administrative center of Hainan, Haikou, on September 24, media reported. 
This year the forum dubbed Free trade on Hainan: the future of entrepreneurship will focus on the island's current business environment and the prospects for doing business on Hainan and the implementation of best practices and initiatives in the region. 
Two conferences will be held within the framework of the forum: the Summit of Investments and the Dialogue of Entrepreneurs. During the events, investors and businessmen will discuss the opportunities offered to business circles by creating a free trade zone in Hainan, share success stories, as well as the problems that they encountered during their work. 
Among the participants in the event were declared Advisor to the State Council of the People’s Republic of China and Vice President of the China Association of Human Resources Wang Huiyao, President of the Institute for Reform and Development of the People’s Republic of China Chi Fulin, as well as the head of the Federation of Social Sciences of Hainan Zhong Yechan. 
Hainan's free trade zone project 
In April 2018, President Xi Jinping said that the Chinese authorities intend to actively involve Hainan in globalization and to draw foreign investors to the island province. By 2050, according to the authorities, the island should become a unique international cluster with an advanced economy, developed tourism, top-notch scientific, technical and financial potential, and modern medicine. The branches of the best universities and offices of the most powerful corporations in the world will be located on the Island of Hainan. 
By 2025, the Chinese government intends to create an international center for tourism and consumption on Hainan. In order to do so, the Eastern Hawaii with their unique natural landscapes, thick rainforests and great climate will establish a developed network of hotels, which blend perfectly with white sandy beaches stretching along the coastline. The combination of an exotic subtropical nature and a modern eco-friendly infrastructure will boost tourist inflow to the island from the most distant parts of the world. 
North, South Korean football teams to square off in Pyongyang in 2022 World Cup qualifier 
North Korea passed this information to Seoul through the Asian Football Confederation because there are no direct contacts between the two Korean states. 
SEOUL, September 24. /TASS/. North Korea has confirmed that the match of the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualification between the North Korean and South Korean national football teams will take place in Pyongyang on October 15, the national football governing body told the Yonhap News Agency on Tuesday. 
According to the association, North Korea passed this information to Seoul through the Asian Football Confederation because there are no direct contacts between the two Korean states. 
The North and South Korean national teams will face off in the same group of the 2022 World Cup qualifying tournament in the Asian zone. Lebanon, Turkmenistan and Sri Lanka are in the same group with the two Koreas. The first match between them is scheduled for October 15 in North Korea, while the second is planned for June 4, 2020 in South Korea. 
The teams of North and South Korea were also drawn in the same group for the 2010 World Cup qualifying tournament. Then, both matches were played on a neutral field in Shanghai. 
US authorities restrict Iranian president’s movement in New York, media reports say 
On Thursday, the United States issued visas to Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif so that they could attend the 74th UN General Assembly session 
TEHRAN, September 24. /TASS/. US officials have restricted Iranian President Hassan Rouhani’s movement during his stay in New York for the 74th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), Iran’s Fars news agency reported on Tuesday. 
According to the news outlet, Rouhani cannot leave the UN headquarters in Manhattan on his own. In addition, the Iranian president has been issued a special permit for his hotel. 
Iran’s Islamic Republic News Agency (IRNA) said on Sunday that about one-third of members of Rouhani’s delegation had been unable to obtain US visas in order to attend the UN General Assembly. 
On Thursday, the United States issued visas to Iranian President Hassan Rouhani and Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif so that they could attend the 74th UN General Assembly session. 
Ryanair mum on filing application for flights from Pulkovo 
The airline representative characterized the information as rumors and speculation 
MOSCOW, September 24. / TASS / The Irish low-cost airline Ryanair declined to comment on information about applying for flights from Pulkovo International Airport in St. Petersburg, the company representative told TASS on Tuesday. 
We do not comment on rumors and speculation, said the airline representative. 
RBC with reference to the general director of Air Gate of the Northern Capital LLC (VVSS, the company operating the Pulkovo airport) Leonid Sergeyev previously informed that three European low-cost airlines, including Ryanair, as well as EasyJet and Wizz Air presented route network plans for Pulkovo flights. According to the agency, foreign carriers plan to fly all year round — at a ratio of 60% in the summer and 40% in the winter. Nevertheless, some Russian airlines are afraid that foreign low-cost airlines will fly to St. Petersburg only in the summer due to the seasonal demand of this direction for most tourists, which will significantly reduce the share of passenger traffic among domestic carriers. 
Election results declared null and void in 15 polling stations, says top Russian official 
According to Ella Pamfilova, 12 investigations have so far been opened into irregularities committed during the election campaign 
Central Election Commission Chairperson Ella Pamfilova 
MOSCOW, September 25. /TASS/. The results of the September 8 election have been declared invalid in 15 voting stations across six Russian regions, Central Election Commission (CEC) Chairperson Ella Pamfilova said at a CEC meeting on Wednesday. 
As of now, the election results in 15 polling stations in six Russian regions have been declared null and void. These regions include Crimea, the Tuva, Primorsky, Moscow and Oryol Regions, as well as the city of St. Petersburg, she specified. 
According to Pamfilova, 12 investigations have so far been opened into irregularities committed during the election campaign. However, as far as I know, there may be more. I think we will have full information by the next meeting, and some of the investigations may even be over by then, the top election official pointed out. 
On September 8, more than 5,000 elections took place in 85 Russian regions at various levels. Among them were 13 legislative assembly elections, 16 gubernatorial elections, 22 city council elections and three municipal elections. In addition, by-elections to the State Duma (the lower house of parliament) were held in four single-mandate districts (in the Khabarovsk, Novgorod, Sverdlovsk and Oryol regions). 
Haikou airport signs cooperation agreements at Australia forum 
About 300 airlines, 700 airports and 130 departments dealing with tourism matters from around the world took part in the forum 
HAIKOU, September 25. /TASS/. The International Meilan Airport in Hainan's Haikou signed a cooperation agreement with with Australia's Darwin International Airport. The signing ceremony took place at World Route Development Forum in Adelaide, Hainan Daily newspaper reported. 
An agreement of intent was also signed on the sidelines of the forum between Meilan International Airport and South Korean airline Air Busan on bilateral cooperation on the Haikou-Busan route. The agreement will allow Hainan's airport to expand international cooperation and create an “economic air travel zone” lasting from 4 to 8 hours. 
Representatives of Haikou Airport held business meetings with their counterparts from more than 20 airlines, airports and foreign travel agencies during the forum. Presentations were also held to attract air carriers from Southeast Asia, Eastern Europe, the United States, Australia and other countries and regions of the world. 
This year, Meilan International Airport launched new flights from Haikou to Kuching (Malaysia), Osaka (Japan), Alma-Ata (Kazakhstan), Mandalay (Myanmar) and Sihanoukville (Cambodia). Flights from Hainan's Haikou are carried out to more than 30 international and regional destinations. 
Sanya also presented its tourism potential during the World Route Development Forum. According to the representative of the Phoenix International Airport, the city's participation in the event helped Sanya strengthen its ties with world air carriers and airports, and would also contribute to the development of international routes thus promoting the Chinese resort city abroad. 
The forum, which traditionally becomes an important event in civil aviation, is annually held in different countries of the world. About 300 airlines, 700 airports and 130 departments dealing with tourism matters from around the world took part in the forum. 
Trump hopes Putin, Zelensky get together, can solve Donbass conflict 
I know you’ll try to do that, Trump added 
NEW YORK, September 25. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin would like to find a solution to the situation in eastern Ukraine and the United States hopes the problem could be solved, US President Donald Trump said on Wednesday at a meeting with Ukrainian counterpart Vladimir Zelensky. 
And I really hope that Russia, because I really believe that President Putin would like to do something, I really hope that you and President Putin get together and can solve your problem, that would be a tremendous achievement, Trump said. 
I know you’ll try to do that, Trump added. 
After Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovich was ousted in a coup in February 2014, mass protests erupted in eastern Ukraine, mostly inhabited by Russian-speaking people. In response, the Kiev authorities launched a military operation in Donbass in April 2014. As a result of intense fire targeting residential districts, the region was hit by a large-scale humanitarian disaster. Multiple attempts to declare a lasting ceasefire, regularly made by the Contact seeking peace for east Ukraine, have not brought about any tangible results. The latest ceasefire agreement was reached this July. Nonetheless, daily shelling are continuing, although on a smaller scale. 
Former French President Jacques Chirac dies at 86 
PARIS, September 26. /TASS/. Former French President Jacques Chirac has passed away at the age of 86, the Agence France-Presse news agency reported, citing his family. 
According to his son-in-law Frederic Salat-Baroux, Chirac passed away on Thursday morning, surrounded by his family. 
Jacques Chirac was born in 1932 to a middle-class family. As a college student, he fell for left-wing ideas but it was his joining the Gaullism movement that proved crucial. During Charles de Gaulle's presidency, Chirac was elected to parliament and entered the cabinet for the first time. 
At the age of 40, Chirac took the helm of the French government but soon was elected mayor of Paris and remained in that position for 18 years. 
From 1995 to 2007, Chirac served as French President. He made over 300 foreign visits, including more than ten visits to Russia. Being a fan of Russian literature, in his youth Chirac learned Russian and even translated a chapter of Alexander Pushkin’s novel Eugene Onegin into French. The former French president was awarded the State Prize of the Russian Federation and the Order for Merit to the Fatherland. 
ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G Very Well Presented at Vienna Fashion Week 2019 
VIENNA, Austria, Sept. 26, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- ZTE Corporation (0763.HK / 000063.SZ), a major international provider of telecommunications, enterprise and consumer technology solutions for the mobile Internet, well presented ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G, the first 5G-ready smartphone in Austria at Vienna Fashion Week 2019, which is held in front of Vienna's MuseumsQuartier for the eleventh time alongside international brands and around 70 designers' collections showed on the catwalk. Early in July, ZTE Axon 10 Pro Series were launched in Austria cooperating with three major carriers in Austria, top retailers and e-commercial dealers. All the participants including designers, creatives, bloggers and fashion lovers will find it effortless chic with ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G to mark the memorable moments on this international stage for fashion, trends and lifestyle with its AI triple camera. It can also be a perfect occasion for the visitors and guests to experience the special capabilities of ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G, as well as drop by ZTE booth to explore more 5G technologies and experiences since ZTE is the unique mobile phone partner of the MQ Vienna Fashion Week. 
Elegance Combined with Innovation 
'Effortless chic & forever girl power' is the brand essence of Emma Sweet. The moderate design elements not only bring unique elegance, but also integrate into everyday life situations. This expressive design composition is also visible in the ZTE Axon Pro 5G, said fashion designer Emma Sweet. In the first row, special guests like former architect and influencer Ana Barros captured the most beautiful moments with ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G. ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G was a good choice as it delivers impressive results with the AI triple camera. I was particularly impressed by the quality of the optical zoom. With the long focus lens I was able to photograph every detail without any problems and take great photos of the show, praises Ana Barros, ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G has also convinced me above all with its appearance. Due to its mirrored glass housing and the glass shimmering surface, it looks very noble. In addition, the flexible curved edge screen and the droplet shape make it very easy to hold in the hand. I'm really looking forward to the upcoming 5G era and gaining ultimate experiences with these amazing 5G devices like ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G. All visitors had the opportunity to get their own opinion of the 5G flagship smartphone and test it. 
ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G features a 6.47-inch AMOLED display. These are clearly superior to conventional screens in terms of contrast, black level and viewing angle. It's equipped with a drop-shaped notch, a fingerprint sensor on the display and powerful AI triple camera. The three cameras are responsible for different focal lengths. In addition to the 48MP main camera with f/1.7 aperture and 6P lens, the 5G smartphone also has a 125-degree ultra wide-angle lens with a 20MP sensor and the 8MP telephoto camera with f/2.4 aperture, which corresponds to a triple optical zoom. 
Commitment to 5G Network Upgrade in the Local Market 
ZTE has earned a reputation as a pioneer in the field of 5G in the global and local market. In June, ZTE and the operator Hutchison Drei Austria have partnered to develop and deploy Austria's first operational 5G network available to selected business clients in Linz, where ZTE and Hutchison Drei Austria have created the first ever continuous 5G coverage throughout an Austrian city. In August, Hutchison Drei Austria and ZTE built one of the best wireless networks in the DACH region. ZTE has been cooperating with Hutchison Drei Austria since 2010 and will continually support Hutchison Drei Austria to improve its 4G network performance and smoothly upgrade the network to 5G. The state-of-the-art 5G smartphone ZTE Axon 10 Pro 5G is also an important part to demonstrate ZTE's strong 5G end-to-end capabilities in the local market. ZTE is active in the 5G ecosystem and is collaborating with leading partners to accelerate the 5G terminal commercialization process. At present, ZTE has deployed 5G terminal cooperation with more than 20 carriers worldwide. 
Farewell service for Jacques Chirac to take place in Paris on September 29 — media 
It is still unclear whether the coffin will be presented for the public to see 
PARIS, September 27. /TASS/. The French authorities are preparing a farewell ceremony for former President Jacques Chirac in front of Les Invalides in Paris’ 7th arrondissement at noon on Sunday, September 29, the Europe 1 radio reports on Friday. 
According to the media, the place and time for the ceremony were chosen by the family of the 86-year old politician who passed away on Thursday. It is still unclear whether the coffin will be presented for the public to see. The authorities are working on the details of the ceremony, more precise information is expected to come later day. 
French President Emmanuel Macron announced on Thursday that Monday is declared a day of mourning across France, while the memorial service will be held in the 6th arrondissement of Paris in the Church of Saint-Sulpice. The service will be attended by the incumbent president as well as leaders of other states. 
The radio station also recalled that Jacques Chirac was personally acquainted with a number of African leaders, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
Former French President Jacques Chirac passed away on Thursday morning surrounded by his family, Chirac’s son-in-law Frederic Salat-Baroux announced. Chirac left politics after his two presidential terms (1995-2007). French radio stations recall that he suffered a vascular incident in 2005. In 2016, his health deteriorated dramatically following the passing of his elder daughter. The last three years, he did not take part in official ceremonies and rarely invited visitors. 
Ukraine expects IMF’s recommendations for new aid program 
Head of the IMF visiting mission to Ukraine said that economic growth remains weak in Ukraine due to poor business environment and other factors 
KIEV, September 27. /TASS/. Ukraine will continue consultations with representatives of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) to be receiving recommendations of the IMF’s board of directors for opening a new aid program, Ukrainian Prime Minister Alexei Goncharuk reported via Twitter on Friday. 
We will continue the talks within the next several weeks to receive the so-called staff agreement — recommendations of the IMF’s board of directors — for opening a new cooperation program, he said. 
The negotiations with international partners are in an active phase. We have started discussing a new three-year support program within the Extended Fund Facility, he said, adding that Kiev has a lot of work to do to ensure GDP growth and create the real market economy in Ukraine. 
Ron van Rooden, head of the IMF visiting mission to the country, said earlier on Friday that economic growth remains weak in Ukraine due to poor business environment, shortcomings in the legal framework and pervasive corruption. Moreover, large parts of the economy are dominated by inefficient state-owned enterprises or by oligarchs deterring competition and investment, he added. 
Lifting the economy to a higher growth path also requires accelerating structural reforms, including most of all firmly establishing the rule of law and decisively tackling corruption, he emphasized. Equally important are enhancing competition and opening up markets, particularly in the energy and agricultural sectors, and reducing the role of the state and oligarchs in the economy, the IMF claimed, adding that discussions on the new program will continue in the coming weeks. 
An International Monetary Fund mission visited Kiev on September 12-26 to hold discussions with Ukraine, particularly on a new program that could be endorsed under the IMF’s Extended Fund Facility. 
Admiral Makarov frigate’s crew takes part in Russian Week forum in Corfu 
Under the forum’s program, the Russian sailors attended a liturgy at the Church of St. John the Baptist 
SEVASTOPOL, September 29. /TASS/. The crew of the Black Sea Fleet’s Admiral Makarov frigate took part in the Russian Week forum’s events during its port call at the Greek island of Corfu, the Fleet said in a statement on Sunday. 
The crew of the Black Sea Fleet’s Admiral Makarov frigate took part in the events of the 17th public forum, The Russian Week, on the Ionic Islands at the Greek port of Kerkyra on Corfu Island, according to the statement. 
Under the forum’s program, the Russian sailors attended a liturgy at the Church of St. John the Baptist. Later, the Black Sea Fleet’s commander, Vice-Admiral Igor Osipov, accompanied by a silent drill team and a military band, took part in a wreath-laying ceremony at a monument to Greece’s first President Ioannis Kapodistrias and a march across Kerkyra’s streets to a monument to Admiral Fyodor Ushakov. The Russian sailors paid tribute to the renowned admiral and participated in a wreath-laying ceremony to a memorial sign To Greeks and Russians, who died for their fathers’ faith’ on Vido Island, the statement read. 
Russian Ambassador to Greece Andrei Maslov visited the newest Black Sea Fleet’s vessel and wished the sailors success in fulfilling their mission as part of a naval task force in the Mediterranean Sea. During the business call, the crew went on sightseeing tours of Corfu Island and the frigate was open for visits by Kerkyra’s citizens. 
The frigate arrived in Corfu on Friday and will stay at the port until October 2. The crew went on a route of the Mediterranean expedition of 1798-1800 led by Admiral Ushakov. Its outcome was liberating the archipelago’s islands and establishing the first democratic state in Greece, known as the Republic of Seven Islands. 
The Admiral Makarov is the third Project 11356 blue-water frigate named after Imperial Russian Navy Commander, Oceanographer and Vice-Admiral Stepan Makarov. This is a series of multirole frigates in a far maritime zone, designed to destroy surface vessels and ships, submarines and the enemy’s surface facilities as well as to carry out patrol missions and protect naval communications. The frigates are armed with eight Kalibr-NK missile launchers. 
Russian senator says US should make a choice between UN and sanctions 
The senator stressed that Washington’s foreign policy games must not affect US commitments to the United Nations 
MOSCOW, September 30. /TASS/. Chairman of the Russian Federation Council's Foreign Affairs Committee Konstantin Kosachev has dismissed the idea of relocating the UN headquarters from New York voiced by some experts after a recent scandal over the US failure to issue visas for a Russian delegation. 
The senator stressed that Washington’s foreign policy games must not affect US commitments to the United Nations. According to Kosachev, it’s absolutely incorrect to view the criticism of US arbitrary actions related to visas only as a demand to relocate UN bodies to another country, which is not gripped by this sort of sanctions fever. I believe that no one will have any objection if Washington returns to a responsible behavior and stops making the UN a hostage of its own foreign policy games. That is, it’s up to the US, not the international community, to make a choice: either the UN or sanctions. Together, it just doesn’t work, Kosachev wrote on his Facebook page on Monday. 
The senator claims an important message should be sent to the international community. They should stop perceiving America’s repressions against sovereign states and their citizens as something reasonable and natural like a natural phenomenon. 
Kosachev stressed that the so-called US sanctions were not international sanctions endorsed by the UN Security Council, but unilateral steps of a superpower, which is clearly exploiting its economic and military advantage and dependence of many other states exclusively for promoting its own interests. This entire rhetoric about the steps for the sake of peace, democracy, freedom and international law may be interesting for US citizens and its allies in order to get some moral justification for this blatant perjury. But it’s high time all the others call a spade a spade: this is the right of force rather than the force of right and the truth, he emphasized. 
According to the senator, not everyone can stand against this. However, he cited the example of Cuba, which proves that everything is possible. There is absolutely no sense in silently approving of this and viewing as a norm this crazy printer of the US Congress, the Treasury Department or the State Department that has been stamping out new lists of America’s enemies at Stalin’s speed. 
This is the behavior of an aggressive and irresponsible state, which calls in question whether it is advisable to have international organizations on its soil, Kosachev noted. 
Visa scandal 
Earlier, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov announced that a number of Russian delegates to the UN General Assembly’s session had not been issued US visas. Among them were the chairs of foreign affairs committees at the upper and lower houses of parliament, Konstantin Kosachev and Leonid Slutsky, Director General of Russia’s state space corporation Roscosmos Dmitry Rogozin and ten staff members of the Russian Foreign Ministry. In the wake of this scandal, some media outlets suggested relocating the UN headquarters to another country. 
Putin attends Jacques Chirac’s farewell service at Church of Saint-Sulpice 
PARIS, September 30. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has arrived at the Church of Saint-Sulpice in Paris to pay last respects to France’s former President Jacques Chirac, a TASS correspondent reported on Monday. 
The Russian president headed to the church where other global leaders are arriving now. Some 80 former and incumbent foreign heads of state are expected to attend the ceremony. 
On Sunday, France held a public tribute at the Invalides monument in Paris for the former president. 
Putin and Chirac repeatedly met in the capacity of their countries’ leaders and after Chirac left the presidential post. In an interview to The Financial Times in June Putin said that Chirac was one of the foreign leaders he had chanced to meet with who produced the most serious impression. Putin described Chirac as a true intellectual, a real professor, a very level-headed man as well as very interesting. 
Jacques Chirac passed away on September 26 at the age of 86, with his loved ones by his bedside. He served as France's president from 1995 to 2007 and retired from politics after his second office. In 2005, he was diagnosed with a cardiovascular disease. In 2016, his health deteriorated dramatically following the passing of his elder daughter. The last three years, he did not take part in official ceremonies and rarely invited visitors. 
Chirac will be buried at the Montparnasse cemetery in Paris next to his daughter Laurence. 
Ukrainian delegation signs Steinmeier formula during session of Contact Group 
The document describes a mechanism of granting special status to Donbass 
Kiev's Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Contact Group for the settlement in Eastern Ukraine Leonid Kuchma 
MINSK, October 1. /TASS/. The Ukrainian delegation has signed the Steinmeier formula on Tuesday during a session of the Contact Group for the settlement in eastern Ukraine, a source close to the Minsk negotiations informed TASS. 
Leonid Kuchma, who represents Kiev at the meeting, has signed the document approved earlier by the aides to the Normandy Four leaders, they noted. 
The so-called Steinmeier formula, which describes a mechanism of granting special status to Donbass, was supposed to be signed during the previous meeting of the Contact Group on September 18. However, at the last moment, the Ukrainian delegation refused to ink the formula approved earlier, causing other participants of the talks to doubt Kiev’s commitment to establishing an order of legal consolidation of the special status demanded in the Minsk Agreements. 
Earlier on Tuesday, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov stated that today’s session of the Contact Group would clear up Kiev’s stance regarding the Steinmeier formula. 
We heard various statements from Kiev regarding the previous refusal. They spoke about both a technical error and misunderstanding. So, today, of course, everyone expects the situation to be clarified, whether Ukraine’s previous position has been transformed, whether the Ukrainian side confirms its departure from the previous agreements or, on the contrary, revises its confirmation of previous obligations, Peskov said. He noted that a possible refusal by the Kiev representatives to sign the formula would impede the negotiation process on Ukrainian regulation. 
Steinmeier formula 
In late 2015, the then-German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier put forward a plan that later became known as the Steinmeier formula. The plan stipulates that a special status be granted to Donbass in accordance with the Minsk Agreements. In particular, the document envisages that Ukraine’s special law on local self-governance will take effect in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions on a temporary basis on the day of local elections, becoming permanent after the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) issues a report on the vote’s results. The idea was endorsed at the Normandy Four meeting in Paris on October 2, 2015, and has been known as the Steinmeier formula since. 
However, in the wake of the formula’s approval, Kiev began to put forward additional conditions for its implementation. Only after Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky assumed office, the Ukrainian government agreed to continue the discussion of the formula. In September, aides to the Normandy Four leaders agreed that the text of the Steinmeier formula must be approved by all members of the Contact Group as a first step towards stage-by-stage implementation of other points of the Minsk Agreements and for the preparations for the new meeting between leaders of Germany, Russia, Ukraine and France. 
Russia has not taken any destructive steps against US, Putin says 
The Russian leader dismissed claims of Russia’s meddling in the US 2020 election as laughable 
MOSCOW, October 2. /TASS/. Russia has not taken any destructive steps against the US, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday. 
Russia has not taken a single destructive step with respect to the US. Not a single one. If you have a different opinion, then substantiate it and furnish some evidence, he said at the plenary session of the Russian Energy Week forum. 
The Russian president has dismissed statements on Russia’s potential meddling in the US 2020 election as laughable. 
He [former US Special Counsel Robert Mueller — TASS] did not find any proof of our collusion with Trump in the past, however, he expressed concern that we might collude in the future. This is laughable. It would be funny if it wasn’t so sad, Putin told the plenary session of the Russian Energy Week. 
In response to a question on whether Russia plans to meddle in the upcoming US presidential election in 2020, Putin joked: Let me tell you a secret: yes, we will definitely do that, just to entertain you even more. The Russian leader added that Russia is busy with resolving its domestic problems. 
The Russian leader also reassured that his conversations with US President Donald Trump could in no way compromise his US colleague’s reputation. 
Listen, I have not been working my entire life in the capacity that I occupy today. And based on my previous experience, I learned that any of my conversations could be published and I take this into consideration, Putin noted. 
So, when they tried to spin another scandal linked to our meeting with President Trump in Helsinki, we said directly to the administration: well, if someone wants to learn something — well then, publish it. We are not against. I assure you that there is nothing there that could compromise Trump, Putin stated. 
According to Putin, the Washington administration refused to disclose the conversations between the Russian and US leaders. They just did not want to do that, as far as I understand, due to their principal considerations. There are things that must be closed, that’s it, the Russian leader said. 
President Putin added that Russia will work with any president elected by the US people. We will work with any partner, any president elected by the American people, the Russian leader said. 
The Mueller probe 
In May 2017, the US Department of Justice announced that former FBI Chief Robert Mueller had been appointed as special counsel to investigate alleged Russian interference in the 2016 US presidential election. On the outcomes of the probe, Mueller failed to prove that US President Donald Trump had colluded with the Russian government to win the election. 
A report by US Attorney General William Burr published on March 24 has confirmed that there was no collusion between Moscow and the Donald Trump presidential campaign. However, the document claims that Russia attempted to influence the outcome of the US 2016 presidential election through cyberattacks, as well as through the activities of Russia’s Internet Research Agency. 
Trump and key members of his team have been repeatedly rejecting all the accusations concerning any collusion between the Trump campaign and Russia. Moscow has also been refuting these allegations. 
Putin says no fundamental grounds in place for dramatic oil price changes 
The dialog between OPEC and non-OPEC countries brings positive results for Russia, the president noted 
MOSCOW, October 2. /TASS/. Oil prices have returned to their earlier level after the spike caused by the drone attack again oil facilities of Saudi Arabia because there are no fundamental preconditions at the moment for the oil price increase, Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Wednesday at the meeting with OPEC Secretary General Mohammed Barkindo. 
The recent large-scale attack against oil infrastructural facilities in Saudi Arabia certainly provoked the oil price hike, the Russian President said. Nevertheless, I was confident everything would return to current figures because there are no fundamental grounds for dramatic fluctuations on the market, Putin said. 
There are no such grounds in particular owing to joint efforts of Russia and OPEC on the global market stabilization, the president said. The dialog between OPEC and non-OPEC countries brings positive results for Russia and for the whole global energy market, Putin added. 
Kiev’s reaction to signing of ‘Steinmeier Formula’ disturbing, says Russian top diplomat 
The minister stressed that Moscow noticed that the Contact Group representatives put their signatures to the Steinmeier Formula on different sheets of paper 
SOCHI, October 2. /TASS/. Demands put forward by Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky’s political opponents to explain the fact that Ukraine put its signature to the Steinmeier Formula are alarming, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told the 16th annual session of the Valdai International Discussion Club on Wednesday. 
The reaction that ensued in Kiev naturally struck a warning note with me — demands of [Pyotr] Poroshenko, of Yulia Timoshenko’s party, let alone of [Svyatoslav] Vakarchuk and other radical political forces [that said], Explain why you are betraying the Ukrainian people. This formula has been known for almost four years soon, he said. 
The minister stressed that Moscow noticed that the Contact Group representatives put their signatures to the Steinmeier Formula on different sheets of paper. Yesterday, all Contact Group members, including Lugansk and Donetsk, signed the Steinmeier Formula, although they did that on different sheets of paper. It is clear that someone thinks it’s below them to put their signatures next to the ones of other members, even though the Minsk Agreements are all signed on a single sheet of paper, he underlined. 
The top diplomat added that before he learnt of Ukraine’s reaction, he was hoping that it was just a protocol or a cosmetic issue that would be overcome. 
Yesterday, the Contact Group on settlement in eastern Ukraine was convened. Following the meeting, Russia’s permanent envoy to the group Boris Gryzlov announced that all members had agreed the Steinmeier Formula to embed it in the Ukrainian legislation. He also pointed out that that is how a process for introducing the law on special status for certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk Regions was agreed. Zelensky’s opponents in the Verkhovna Rada (Ukrainian parliament) demanded that the president and the government provide clarification and explanation behind the reason to adopt the formula and its contents. 
Steinmeier formula 
In late 2015, the then German Foreign Minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier put forward a plan that later became known as the Steinmeier Formula. The plan stipulates that a special status be granted to Donbass in accordance with the Minsk Agreements. In particular, the document envisages that Ukraine’s special law on local self-governance will take effect in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions on a temporary basis on the day of local elections, becoming permanent after the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) issues a report on the vote’s results. The idea was endorsed at the Normandy Four meeting in Paris on October 2, 2015, and has been known as the Steinmeier Formula since. 
Sharapova withdraws from Linz tournament over shoulder injury 
MOSCOW, October 3. /TASS/. Russian tennis star Maria Sharapova will skip the Women's Tennis Association’s tournament in Austria’s Linz, offering $250,000 in prize money, over a shoulder injury, the WTA’s press service said on Thursday. 
Earlier, the 32-year-old Russian refused to take part in the VTB Kremlin Cup tennis tournament in Moscow due on October 12-20. 
I am very sorry that Maria can't come to Linz. But I fully understand her, the health of the player always has priority, the tournament’s Director Sandra Reichel said. 
The Russian player has skipped a vast part of this tennis season due to a shoulder injury, she stayed out of competitions from February to mid-June. In early August, Sharapova parted ways with her Swedish coach Thomas Hogstedt, who had trained her between 2011 and 2013 and with whom she resumed training partnership in 2018. 
Sharapova is currently ranked number 137 in the WTA’s ranking, having won 36 tournaments. She is Russia’s most decorated female tennis player having won a total of five Grand Slam tournaments, namely the Australian Open in 2008, the French Open in 2012 and 2014, Wimbledon in 2004 and the US Open in 2006. She also clinched the silver in the 2012 Summer Olympics in London and was the 2008 Federations Cup champion. 
The tournament in Linz is due on October 7-13. Sharapova won competitions in Linz in 2006. 
Progress in Syrian peace process to pave way for Damascus’ return to Arab League — Lavrov 
Syria’s membership in the Arab League was suspended in November 2011 when a conflict flared up in the country 
MOSCOW, October 3. /TASS/. The launch of Syria’s Constitutional Committee will bring forth the topic of Syria’s return to the Arab League, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in an interview with the Arabic-language media. The interview was posted on the Russian Foreign Ministry’s website on Thursday. 
We are confident that the launch of the committee’s work in Geneva will give an impetus to the entire settlement process in Syria, he said. Progress on the political track will bring forth the long-standing topic of Damascus’ return to the Arab family. I mean the Arab League. 
However, in his words, much will depend on Saudi Arabia’s position, because its voice is heard in the region and beyond. 
Syria’s membership in the Arab League was suspended in November 2011 when a conflict flared up in the country. Most of the Arab nations recalled their ambassadors from Damascus and scaled down trade ties with Syria. 
Israel's strike against Syria 
Air strikes against Syrian territory by the Israeli military may destabilize the situation in the region, the Russian top diplomat stated. 
Regarding arbitrary Israeli airstrikes on Syrian territory, we have never concealed a negative attitude towards such actions that further destabilize the situation and could lead to an escalation, he noted. 
Syria should not become a platform for implementing plans or settling scores. The main task of all concerned forces must be to help restore peace to Syrian territory, he added. 
US troops withdrawal from Syria 
The remaining US presence in Syria raises eyebrows and Moscow hopes that US President Donald Trump will fulfill his pledge on withdrawing troops, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in the interview with Asharq Al-Awsat newspaper on Thursday. 
According to Lavrov, only a request by the country’s legitimate authorities or the UN Security Council’s resolution could serve as a legal basis for external actors on Syrian soil. Iran is in Syria at the request of Damascus, unlike the United States, he said. 
When ISIS’ main elements [terror group outlawed in Russia] in Syria are defeated, questions will arise about the purpose of the continued US presence on Syrian soil, Russia’s top diplomat said. 
There is a strong sense that Washington’s mission is to prevent the restoration of Syria’s territorial integrity, in direct violation of Security Council Resolution 2254, he stressed. 
Lavrov expressed hope that Washington would fulfill its pledge made by President Donald Trump in December 2018 to withdraw US troops from the country. 
Meanwhile, Lavrov noted that despite their differences, Moscow and Washington managed to show that they could cooperate on the Syrian dossier. He recalled that the 2013 Russian-US deal on destroying Syria’s chemical arms helped prevent a military scenario. A ceasefire in Syria came into effect for the first time in 2016 under a decision of Moscow and Washington, Lavrov noted. 
Besides, the Russian and US military managed to establish good cooperation in Syria for ensuring safe flights. A special mechanism was introduced on providing assistance in case of crisis situations, which stipulated certain rules for the crews. Thanks to this mechanism, some incidents that could endanger security of Russian and US troops were prevented, Lavrov pointed out. 
Troops use smoke screen to hide Buk-M2 launchers from enemy strike in Siberia drills 
The drills involved over 500 personnel and about 40 items of military and special hardware 
MOSCOW, October 3. /TASS/. The personnel of a radiation, chemical and biological protection formation stationed in the Altai Region in Siberia hid Buk-M2 missile launchers from a notional enemy’s precision weapons with the help of an aerosol screen, the press office of Russia’s Central Military District reported on Thursday. 
Under the scenario of special tactical drills, a notional enemy’s subversion and reconnaissance group planned a missile and bomb strike against Buk-M2 launchers, using laser marks. The personnel of an aerosol unit went on alert and hid the launchers, using a TDA-3 aerosol-screen generating vehicle. Military specialists created the appearance of a thick fog with the help of horizontal and elevated screens, thus providing a reliable cover for military hardware, the press office said in a statement. 
The drills involved over 500 personnel from the 41st all-arms army and about 40 items of military and special hardware, the statement says. 
The 41st all-arms army of Russia’s Central Military District is stationed in the Novosibirsk, Kemerovo, Altai regions and the Republic of Tyva. It integrates motorized infantry, artillery, air defense, radiation, chemical and biological protection forces and signal troops. 
Service sector accounts for more than half of Hainan's GDP 
In April 2018, President Xi Jinping said that the Chinese authorities intend to actively involve Hainan in globalization and to draw foreign investors to the island province 
HAIKOU, October 3. /TASS/. More than half of Hainan province's GDP accounts for the service sector — the indicators were provided by the local authorities, www.hinews.cn writes. 
In six months of 2019, the added value in the province's services sector reached 155,59 billion yuan (about $ 21,8 billion), making it by 6.5% higher than the figures for the same period in 2018. At the same time, the share of the services sector in the province's GDP structure stands at about 58,4%. In the first six months of 2019, the said indicator increased by 3.5 percentage points, which is more than the national average figures in China. 
Hainan's eeconomic structure continues optimization, there is a good foundation for high-quality development. Investments in 12 major industries in the first half of the year amounted to 77,1% of the total investment in fixed assets, the resource quotes the head of the Hainan Committee for Development and Reform Fu Xuanchao. 
Since April 2018, according to the portal, when the Hainan authorities decided to focus on the country's largest free trade pilot zone, the progress in promoting reforms and openness has indeed been noticeable. From November 2018 to September 2019, 664 projects were launched in the province with a total investment of about 309,8 billion yuan (about $ 44,2 billion), coming both from Chinese and foreign investors. 
While building a pilot free trade zone, the Hainan authorities are trying to create favorable business climate and attract investors in the areas that can ensure the island's high-quality development. Simultaneously, the authorities are simplifying a number of procedures. For example, according to the website, the customs clearance time in Hainan ports since 2017 was reduced by 64,6% due to the optimization of the process. In the first half of 2019, at least 163 new enterprises with foreign capital were registered in the province, which is 254% higher than the figures for the same period last year — thus, the business climate on the island is gaining momentum. 
Hainan's free trade zone project 
In April 2018, President Xi Jinping said that the Chinese authorities intend to actively involve Hainan in globalization and to draw foreign investors to the island province. By 2050, according to the authorities, the island should become a unique international cluster with an advanced economy, developed tourism, top-notch scientific, technical and financial potential, and modern medicine. The branches of the best universities and offices of the most powerful corporations in the world will be located on the Island of Hainan. 
By 2025, the Chinese government intends to create an international center for tourism and consumption on Hainan. In order to do so, the Eastern Hawaii with their unique natural landscapes, thick rainforests and great climate will establish a developed network of hotels, which blend perfectly with white sandy beaches stretching along the coastline. The combination of an exotic subtropical nature and a modern eco-friendly infrastructure will boost tourist inflow to the island from the most distant parts of the world. 
Russian senator calls on OSCE to respond to Kiev’s language policy for schools 
On Friday, the Ukrainian Education and Science minister said that Russian-language schools in Ukraine would start teaching only in Ukrainian, starting in September 2020 
MOSCOW, October 4. /TASS/. The Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) and the Council of Europe should respond to Kiev’s decision to force all Russian-language schools in Ukraine to teach in Ukrainian, Chairman of the Russian Federation Council (the upper house of parliament) Foreign Affairs Committee Konstantin Kosachev wrote on Facebook on Friday. 
It seems, this is Kiev’s another attempt at contributing to the country’s reunification. Ukrainian nationalists are doing their best to leave as few options as possible for the Russian-speaking residents in southeastern Ukraine. The Council of Europe and the OSCE, it’s your turn now! Or maybe you will find more important issues to tackle, as you always do, particularly discussing another Russian aspect, Kosachev said. 
On Friday, Ukrainian Education and Science Minister Anna Novosad told the Pryamoi TV channel that Russian-language schools in Ukraine would start teaching only in the state language, that is, in Ukrainian, starting in September 2020, while schools teaching European Union languages would do it in September 2023. The minister earlier called for removing all reference to friendly relations with Russia from school books. 
On May 15, 2019, then Ukrainian President Pyotr Poroshenko signed a language bill into law. The document stipulates that all Ukrainian citizens from now on are obliged to use the Ukrainian language in all areas of life. Special language inspectors will monitor compliance. They will be empowered to attend any state agency’s meetings, collect documents from public organizations and political parties for examination and issue fines. 
Alrosa digs up record-breaking, 800-mln year-old diamond 
The gemstone has an unusual structure, with one diamond freely moving inside the other one 
MOSCOW, October 4. /TASS/. Russia’s top miner Alrosa unearthed a double diamond in Yakutia, estimated by researchers to be more than 800 million years old, the company reported on Friday. 
The gemstone has an unusual structure, with one diamond freely moving inside the other one. The gem therefore looks like a traditional nesting doll. This unique diamond is the first of its kind ever in the industry’s history, specialists say. 
Despite its complex structure, the diamond’s weight is just 0.62 carats, Alrosa reported. The space of the inner cavity is 6 cubic millimeters and the weight of the diamond nesting inside is 0.02 carats. 
Alrosa mines diamonds in the Sakha (Yakutia) and Arkhangelsk Regions. In 2018, the mining giant produced more than 36.6 million carats of gemstones, while selling more than 38 million carats. In addition, the producer rang up $4.5 bln in sales revenues. 
Russian long jumper Klishina shares concerns over Russia’s participation in 2020 Olympics 
All Russian track and field athletes, apart from Darya Klishina, did not compete at the 2016 Olympics 
DOHA, October 6. /TASS/. Russia’s Darya Klishina, the 2017 world silver medalist in long jump, shares concerns about the possibility of Russia’s participation in the 2020 Summer Olympics in Tokyo, the athlete told TASS. 
Russian athletes may not be cleared to participate in the Olympic Games if the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA) is once again found to be non-compliant with the international anti-doping rules. Earlier, world’s anti-doping body WADA announced that it had initiated a probe into the compliance status of the Russian agency due to inconsistencies found in the data from the Moscow Anti-Doping Laboratory. 
I wouldn’t like the situation of the Rio-2016 to repeat itself during the coming Olympic year. I hope this wouldn’t happen, but media forecasts look pessimistic so far, Klishina said. 
Everyone still hopes for the better, but the situation shows that our position is not very good. I hope that participation will be allowed at least to those who have been cleared for competitions at present, that they would have a chance to compete under the Russian flag. But we can only wait, I think the decision will be made by next summer, she added. 
All Russian track and field athletes, apart from Darya Klishina, did not compete at the 2016 Olympics due to a ban imposed on the All-Russia Athletic Federation (RusAF) in November 2015 after major doping scandals broke out. Some Russian athletes obtained permissions to compete at international events from the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) but only as neutral athletes, representing Authorised Neutral Athletes (ANA). 
On September 23, the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) launched an inquiry into RUSADA’s compliance after inconsistencies in the Moscow lab databases emerged. WADA gave Russia three weeks to explain this situation. 
Turkish artillery shells Kurdish positions in Syria’s Raqqa 
Earlier in the day, the aircraft of the Turkish Air Force carried out an airstrike on a Kurdish command center in the city of Al-Malikiyah in northeastern Syria 
MOSCOW, October 8. /TASS/. The artillery of the Turkish armed forces on Monday night shelled positions of Kurdish armed groups, members of the anti-government Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) alliance, in the north of Syria’s Raqqa governorate, Syria’s Sham FM radio station reported. 
According to the radio station’s sources, the shelling targeted Kurdish positions east of the city of Tell Abyad. No information about deaths or casualties is available so far. 
Earlier in the day, the aircraft of the Turkish Air Force carried out an airstrike on a Kurdish command center in the city of Al-Malikiyah in Syria’s northeasternmost Al-Hasakah Governorate, the Al Mayadeen TV channel reported 
The Al Hadath TV station said air strikes also targeted a border zone between Syria and Iraq, near the Semalka border crossing. Two bridges were destroyed as a result. 
Russian, Turkish top diplomats discuss situation in northeastern Syria 
The Turkish president said on October 1 that Ankara had decided to act on its own to set up a security zone east of the Euphrates in Syria as its telephone consultations with the US had been futile 
MOSCOW, October 8. /TASS/. The situation in northeastern Syria was in focus of a telephone conversation between Russian and Turkish foreign ministers, Sergey Lavrov and Mevlut Cavusoglu, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Tuesday. 
The sides discussed in detail the process of the Syrian settlement paying special attention to the developments in the northeast of Syria, the ministry said. The ministers agreed to continue close dialogue to strengthen and develop the Russian-Turkish cooperation in all areas. 
The two top diplomats also exchanged views on the situation in the Balkans, the ministry commented, adding that the call was initiated by the Turkish side. 
Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan reported on October 1 that Ankara had decided to act on its own to set up a security zone east of the Euphrates in Syria as its telephone consultations with the US side had proved to be futile. On October 6, Erdogan held a phone conversation with US President Donald Trump who said the US would not support Ankara or take any part in Turkey’s military operation in northern Syria. Moreover, US servicemen would be withdrawn from the immediate vicinity. 
On October 7, the Turkish leader stated that the United States had begun to withdraw its troops from northeastern Syria where Ankara planned to establish a security zone. 
One person arrested after synagogue shooting in German Halle 
TASS, October 9. The police of the German city of Halle have arrested one person following the shooting that killed at least two people, the police said via Twitter on Wednesday. 
Our officers have arrested one person, they said. 
Two shooters opened fire outside a synagogue in Halle, a police spokesperson told reporters. 
The German police also confirmed that apart from a shooting outside a synagogue in Halle shots were fired in Landsberg situated 15 km away from Halle (Saxony-Anhalt). 
No additional reports on the Landsberg shooting have emerged yet. 
The authorities of nearby Dresden tightened security measured around the local synagogue. Due to the events unfolding now in Halle, we are increasing security in Dresden’s synagogue and Jewish cemetery, the Bild newspaper quotes police spokesperson Thomas Geithner as saying. The police also urges locals to stay home. The newspaper also reports that an unidentified person threw a grenade at a Jewish cemetery in Halle. 
Deutsche Bahn announced that the railway station in the city had been closed down. 
The local MDR broadcaster said that the perpetrators were armed with a few guns and dressed in military gear, citing witnesses. 
Witnesses also report an explosion at a Jewish cemetery, which was caused by a grenade thrown by an unidentified person, the German Bild newspaper said. 
The city authorities announced an emergency in Halle. The region’s police is sending all available forces to the city. 
On October 8-9, Jews are celebrating one of the most important religious holidays - Yom Kippur (the Day of Atonement, the holiest day of the year in Judaism). 
North Korea, Russia boost bilateral ties after leaders’ summit, says senior diplomat 
North Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Im Chon Il spoke at Russia’s embassy in Pyongyang marking the 71st anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the Soviet Union and N. Korea 
PYONGYANG, October 9. /TASS/. North Korea has enhanced bilateral engagement with Russia after the summit meeting between Russian President Vladimir Putin and North Korean leader Kim Jong-un held in Vladivostok last April, North Korean Deputy Foreign Minister Im Chon Il said on Wednesday. 
The North Korean senior diplomat spoke at a reception at Russia’s embassy in Pyongyang marking the 71st anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the Soviet Union and North Korea, or the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). 
After the historic summit, the DPRK and the Russian Federation have boosted exchanges of high-level delegations and bilateral contacts in a wide range of fields, namely in politics, the economy, culture and defense, Im Chon Il said. Practical steps and measures are being taken to achieve real results in the implementation of the agreements reached at the summit. 
According to the North Korean deputy foreign minister, the two countries’ leaders struck a wonderful friendship at the Vladivostok summit and confirmed the invariable course of the history of the Korean-Russian relationship. 
We are delighted that under the leadership of distinguished President Vladimir Putin, Russia ensures the sustainable social and political stability and economic growth, succeeds in bolstering defense capabilities and firmly defends its positions and interests in the international arena, he stressed. We wish Russia would get ahead. 
Apart from that, Im Chon Il said that the festivities in Pyongyang marking the 71st anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations were attended by a delegation of Russian media heads led by Mikhail Seslavinsky, head of the Federal Agency for Press and Mass Communications. That fact helps to strengthen the atmosphere of bilateral relations that are on the rise after the DPRK-Russia summit, according to the diplomat. 
Besides Seslavinsky, the Russian delegation, which arrived in Pyongyang on Monday, features TASS Director General Sergei Mikhailov, Channel One Director General Konstantin Ernst, TASS First Deputy Director General Mikhail Gusman and TASS First Deputy Editor-in-Chief Marat Abulkhatin. 
On Monday, the heads of TASS news agency and Korean Central News Agency (KCNA), Sergei Mikhailov and Kim Chang Gwang, held talks to ink a new agreement on cooperation between the two leading news agencies of Russia and North Korea. 
The Soviet Union and North Korea established diplomatic ties on October 12, 1948. 
Zelensky says Ukraine should assume border control before Donbass election 
Earlier on Thursday, the president said that he is not satisfied with the 2015 Minsk Agreements, as he does not agree with the order of the steps stipulated there 
KIEV, October 10. /TASS/. Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky stated that the Ukrainian side disagrees with an article of the Minsk Agreements, which stipulates that Ukraine can only assume control over the Donbass border area with Russia after an election in the region is held. 
The only controversial issue is the fact that first, we hold an election (in Donbass - TASS), and then Ukraine controls the border, he told reporters in Kiev. 
This is a very controversial issue. To be honest, I would solve this issue differently, he continued. This is why we will promote a different resolution. A completely different one. 
Zelensky repeated Ukraine’s conditions for recognizing the Donbass election. According to him, this will only happen if the election is held in accordance with the Ukrainian law, with the participation of the Ukrainian Central Election Commission, candidates of Ukrainian parties and people who can ensure security. 
If this is not done, then the Central Electoral Commission and reporters will not be allowed there (to Donbass - TASS). That is, if we do not see this, then we will not recognize the election automatically, no matter what we sign or do not sign, Zelensky noted. 
In response to a question on whether Ukraine has an alternative plan in case Russia would insist on holding an election in Donbass before handing over border control, Zelensky said: We have a plan B, but I don’t want to talk about it now. 
Earlier on Thursday, Zelensky said that he is not satisfied with the 2015 Minsk Agreements, as he does not agree with the order of the steps stipulated there. 
Minsk Agreements 
The Minsk Agreements form the basis of peaceful regulation in Donbass. They include such measures as ceasefire, disengagement of forces and equipment, amnesty, reestablishment of economic ties, along with a deep constitutional reform in Ukraine, which should lead to the Donetsk and Lugansk Regions acquiring special status within Ukraine. However, so far, this plan remains unimplemented, due to the Ukrainian side refusing to comply with the political points of the agreement, citing unregulated security issues. Besides, Ukraine insists on taking control over an area of the Russian border, although the Minsk Agreements establish that this can only take place after new elections in Donbass and a constitutional reform in Ukraine. 
Last week, all members of the Contact Group for settlement in eastern Ukraine signed the so-called Steinmeier formula, which stipulates that a special status be granted to Donbass in accordance with the Minsk Agreements. In particular, the document envisages that Ukraine’s special law on local self-governance will take effect in certain areas of the Donetsk and Lugansk regions on a temporary basis on the day of local elections, becoming permanent after the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) issues a report on the vote’s results. 
More than 20 Kurdish fighters killed in two days in Turkish operation in Syria 
Earlier, it was reported that the Syrian Democratic Forces were blocked in Tell Abyad after the Turkish forces and the Syrian opposition took under control communities to the east and west of the town 
MOSCOW, October 11. /TASS/. Twenty-two fighters of the Arab-Kurdish armed coalition Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) have been killed during the past two days as a result of the operation of the Turkish armed forces in northern Syria, TV channel Al Arabiya reported on Friday, citing the SDF’s statement. 
Earlier on Friday TV channel Al Jazeera reported that the SDF were blocked in the town of Tell Abyad (Raqqa Governorate) after the Turkish armed forces and the Syrian opposition units that support them took under control communities located east and west of the town. 
On October 9, Ankara declared that Operation Peace Spring will be carried out in northern Syria. It started with Turkish air strikes on Kurdish positions. The goal is to create a buffer zone there which is to become a protective belt for the Turkish border. Syrian refugees will be able to return there from Turkey, according to Ankara’s plans. News agency SANA called the operation aggression, and the global community denounced Ankara’s actions. 
Russian-Chinese consultations on situation in Middle East held in Moscow 
The two senior diplomats reiterated Moscow’s and Beijing’s commitment to closer coordination in the interest of promoting long-term stabilization in this strategically-important region of the world 
MOSCOW, October 11. /TASS/. The situation in the Middle East, including in Syria, Libya, and the Gulf, were in focus of the Russian-Chinese consultations involving Russian president’s special envoy for the Middle East and African countries and Deputy Foreign Minister Mikhail Bogdanov and Chinese Assistant Foreign Minister Chen Xiaodong, the Russian foreign ministry said on Friday. 
In the course of detailed and trust-based exchange of views, the sides discussed the current situation in the Middle East and North Africa with a focus on the state of affairs in Syria, Libya, Yemen, and the Gulf region. They also exchanged opinions of the prospects for the Palestinian-Israeli settlement, the ministry said. 
The two senior diplomats reiterated Moscow’s and Beijing’s commitment to closer coordination in the interests of promoting long-term stabilization in this strategically-important region of the world, the ministry noted. 
They agreed that it is necessary to encourage comprehensive and non-confrontational approaches to the settlement of crisis situations in line with the principles of international law and provisions of the United Nations Charter, the ministry added. 
Russian Paralympic Committee receives official invitation to 2020 Paralympic Games 
The 2020 Paralympic Games will be held in Tokyo from August 25 until September 6 
MOSCOW, October 11. /TASS/. /TASS/. The Russian Paralympic Committee (RPC) has received an official invitation to the 2020 Paralympic Games in Tokyo from the International Paralympic Committee (IPC), the RPC press service said on Friday. 
The International Paralympic Committee and the Organizing Committee of the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games have sent an official invitation to the Russian Paralympic Committee, signed by IPC President Andrew Parsons and Tokyo-2020 Organizing Committee President Yoshiro Mori, to take part in the 16th Summer Paralympic Games in Tokyo in 2020, the RPC said. 
The number of Russian delegates to the 2020 Paralympic Games will be determined in accordance with qualifications criteria. Around 300 Russian athletes are expected to compete in 18-20 disciplines at the 2020 Paralympics.The ceremony of raising the Russian flag over the Olympic Village is planned for August 23 or 24. The delegation of the Russian national team to the 2020 Paralympic Games in Tokyo will be headed by RPC First Vice President Pavel Rozhkov. 
The 2020 Paralympic Games will be held in Tokyo from August 25 until September 6. 
Putin voices hope there will be no new Cold War 
The Russian leader also noted that an arms race is a bad thing and it will not be good for the world 
MOSCOW, October 13. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has expressed hope that there would be no new Cold War, stressing that in any case Russia would be affected to the least extent thanks to its advanced weapons, the Russian leader said in an interview with RT Arabic, Al Arabiya and Sky News Arabia TV channels on Sunday. 
I don’t want this. In any case, this would affect Russia to the least extent because like I have already said we have got promising armaments, which are absolutely exclusive and which no one in the world has now. To a certain extent, we have already gone our own way in this sense and now we are thinking about prospects and we are working calmly, Putin said. 
Putin drew attention to the difference in military spending in a number of states, noting that Russia was in the seventh place in the world in terms of expenditure estimated at nearly $48 bln. The US is the world’s top spender, with its military budget exceeding $700 bln, and is followed by China, Saudi Arabia, the United Kingdom, France and Japan. 
However, we have weapons, which no one in the world has. This is the result of a focused work in crucial areas. We must give credit to our specialists for their ability to determine these areas and concentrate resources, Putin noted. 
The Russian leader also noted that an arms race is a bad thing and it will not be good for the world. However, we will not be dragged into exorbitant budget-spending games, he stressed. 
Russia will support any deal that will reconcile Palestine and Israel - Putin 
Speaking on the US-proposed deal of the century, Russian leader said Washington has been pretty vague about the details of the deal 
DUBAI, October 13. /TASS/. Russia is ready to back any deal that will iron out the long-running Israeli-Palestinian conflict, Russian President Vladimir Putin said in an interview with RT Arabic, Al Arabiya and Sky News Arabia TV channels on Sunday. 
We will support any deal that will bring peace, Putin said. 
Speaking on the US-proposed deal of the century, Putin said Washington has been pretty vague about the details of the deal. Washington has kept in the dark the global and domestic public, the Middle East, and Palestine. 
We need to know what it is about, the Russian president said answering about his stance on the US proposal. 
According to the Russian leader, Moscow believes it is important to ensure a two-state solution and be fully committed to all the UN decisions. 
The president noted that Russia’s participation in solving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict depends not on Moscow’s actions, but on the wish of the parties to this process. Putin said Russia had very good relations with Israel. Almost 1.5 million Israelis come from the former Soviet Union. Israel is almost a Russian-speaking country. The Russian language is often heard in shops everywhere. We do care about what is happening in Israel. 
The Russian leader recalled the efforts on arranging direct talks between the authorities of both parties to the conflict as well as between different Palestinian groups. Restoring Palestinian unity would be a major contribution to the process. Speaking with different voices undermines the united Palestinian stance. But we are working on it. 
We believe that the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is key to resolving many other regional issues, Putin stressed. Unless it is resolved, it will continue to feed radicalism and terrorism, among other things. When people feel they have no legal ways to uphold their rights, they take up arms. In this sense, I feel the Israelis are also interested in a long-term, ultimate solution, not just the Palestinians. 
OPCW needs to remediate flaws in the work of its mission in Syria, says Russia’s envoy 
The diplomat stressed that Russia fully supports its Syrian counterparts on the issue of the Fact-Finding Mission’s terms of reference 
THE HAGUE, October 14. /TASS/. The Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) needs to start remediating the flaws in the work of its Fact-Finding Mission (FFM) in Syria without delay, Russian Permanent Representative to the organization Alexander Shulgin said at the 92nd meeting of the OPCW Executive Council. The text of his speech was published by the Russian embassy in the Netherlands on Monday. 
According to the diplomat, it is time for the OPCW Technical Secretariat to start to rectify the situation with the mission’s work. We acknowledge the FFM’s efforts, which is working in extremely difficult conditions, he said. Nevertheless, just like some other delegations, we have lots of complaints about the FFM’s activities. 
Bringing the FFM’s work practice in compliance with the norms and requirements of the Chemical Weapons Convention (CWC) remains a critical task. Unfortunately, this is not the case now. Remote investigations without travelling to the scene of the incident and obtaining material evidence from dubious sources, to be more precise, from ‘third parties,’ has become a routine practice, he said. 
Russia fully supports its Syrian counterparts on the issue of FFM’s terms of reference, Shulgin went on to say. The need to do that has long been overdue, he stressed. Only by revising that basic document taking into account the accumulated experience, will allow us to hope that the FFM will improve the efficiency of its work. Until this problem is solved, we will be raising the issue of unconvincing investigations again and again. That has an adverse effect on the atmosphere within our organization and its standing in the global community. 
The Russian envoy stressed that his criticism was by no means aimed at discrediting the Fact-Finding Mission, but, vice versa, seeks to optimize its work and bring it into full compliance with the convention and the contemporary realities. 
Bank of Russia believes improper to completely reject dollar in international reserves 
Russia sold a considerable portion of its dollar-denominated reserves last year after a new round of US sanctions and increased settlements in alternative currencies 
MOSCOW, October 14. /TASS/. The Bank of Russia does not consider prudent to completely abandon the dollar in international reserves, department director Alexei Zabotkin said in the State Duma [lower house of the Russian parliament - TASS] on Monday. 
From my personal point of view, complete exclusion of the dollar from [international] reserves is associated with excessive risks, he said. 
The whole range of liabilities is nominated in dollars, including the state debt, Zabotkin said. Therefore, gold and currency reserves will be needed in a bad situation, when we have a dramatic worsening of the payment balance and budget revenues and when it will be required to settle such liabilities at the expense of funds in the budget, for example, transfers at the expense of the National Wealth Fund. It will be better if assets also denominated in dollars are against a portion of such liabilities in this case. In other words, it is probably wrong to completely reject the dollar in gold and currency reserves, he added. 
Russia sold a considerable portion of its dollar-denominated reserves (about $100 bln) last year after a new round of US sanctions and increased settlements in alternative currencies, having bought the euro and the yuan in the amount of about $90 bln, the Central Bank said in its annual report earlier. 
The share of the dollar in reserves dropped from 45.8% to 22.7%. The yuan share increased from 2.8% to 14.2%. The share of the pound sterling declined from 8.3% to 6%. The euro share rose from 21.7% to 31.7%. The share of gold rose by 0.9 percentage point to 18.1% as of the 2018 year-end. 
New security system of Russian Museum to provide simultaneous control over all rooms 
The theft of a painting by Arkhip Kuindzhi from an exhibition at the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow became the reason for allocating additional funds to build up security in museums 
ST. PETERSBURG, October 16. /TAS/. The new security system that is being developed in the Russian Museum will provide simultaneous observation over all rooms, Russian Museum Director Vladimir Gusev said in an interview with TASS ahead of the St. Petersburg International Culture Forum. 
We are now receiving funds from the Ministry of Culture as well. A methodical center was created in the Ministry of Culture, and it should help the museums’ security services. We will purchase equipment for video monitoring - we lack cameras. That is, the security system should be multi-level, and there is work underway to create situation centers in order to monitor all rooms simultaneously, he said. 
Gusev explained that work to increase security measures is regularly carried out in the museum, but it depends on financing. The theft of a painting by Arkhip Kuindzhi from an exhibition at the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow became the reason for allocating additional funds to build up security in museums this year. When such extraordinary situations happen - like the theft of Kuindzhi’s painting from an exhibition - attention is drawn to this problem, high-level discussions are held, and financial receipts grow, the museum’s director said. 
He noted that over 30 years during which he headed the Russian Museum there were no significant thefts of exhibits. Gusev reiterated that the most vociferous case was an attempt to steal Vasily Perov’s painting Solitary Guitarist in April 1999, but it was successfully returned. 
In January 2019, Kuindzhi’s painting Ai-Petri. Crimea, that had been brought from the Russian Museum, was stolen from an exhibition at the Tretyakov Gallery. Denis Chuprikov was found guilty. He took the painting from a wall in a Tretyakov Gallery hall, removed the frame behind the demonstration stand, left the building and disappeared. The next day Chuprikov was detained in the village of Zarechye, Moscow Region. Moscow’s Zamoskvoretsky Court sentenced him to three years in a colony. Police officers found the painting on the site of a facility under construction in the Odintsovo district and gave it to the Ministry of Culture. The work was then returned to the Russian Museum. 
Officials to scrutinize expert probe of ‘drunk’ six-year-old run over by police officer 
According to newsler.ru, the boy’s parents recently received the forensic examination’s results, which showed an apparent presence of 0.51 per mille of alcohol in his blood 
KIROV, October 16. /TASS/. The office of the Russian commissioner for children’s rights in the Kirov Region will scrutinize an expert examination procedure that ended up finding alcohol in the blood of a child who was run down by a car in the Kirov Region, Commissioner for Children’s Rights Vladimir Shabardin told TASS on Wednesday. 
On July 13, 2019, a six-year-old boy who was riding his bike along a country road was run down by an automobile in the village of Buiskoye, in the Kirov Region. A criminal case was launched under Part 3 Section 264 of the Russian Criminal Code (“Violation of road traffic rules”). A police officer, whose last name is Nemsky was behind the wheel when the accident occurred. According to newsler.ru, the boy’s parents recently received the forensic examination’s results, which showed an apparent presence of 0.51 per mille of alcohol in his blood. Given the circumstances, the relatives are also alarmed at the long, drawn out investigation into the case. 
We took control of the situation, sent a request to the investigating authorities about how the examination was carried out, and what further steps were taken to find out the reasons for the detection of ethyl alcohol in the child’s blood, Shabardin said, adding that the parents did not contact the commissioner. 
According to the preliminary information from Kirov Regional Office of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the police officer could not have stopped the crash. A subsequent examination showed no presence of alcohol in his blood. This policeman continues to serve on the force and the issue of his possible dismissal will be decided on once a procedural ruling on the criminal case is made. 
In April 2017, the death of another six-year-old boy, who likewise was run down by an automobile in the town of Balashikha, in the Moscow Region, received widespread publicity. Following the accident, the expert discovered the presence of alcohol in the blood of the deceased child. Supervisor of the Moscow Region Bureau for Forensic Examinations Mikhail Kleimenov used a metal scooper in violation of the prescribed procedure when gathering blood samples, which led to its contamination. In addition, the evidence was not immediately delivered to the forensic laboratory. These violations led to the alcoholic fermentation of the blood samples and the formation of acetaldehyde and ethyl alcohol in the amount of 2.7%, identified during the forensic examination. The expert was sentenced to 10 months of corrective labor. 
The investigation into the criminal case of the boy fatally struck by a car in the Kirov Region, in whose blood alcohol was found, was transferred to the special cases department of the Russian Investigative Committee’s Investigative Directorate for the Kirov Region, the committee’s press service told TASS on Wednesday. 
Lithuania, Russia to swap prisoners sentenced for spying, media reports say 
According to the Baltic News Service, negotiations had lasted for about a year, while Vilnius okayed the move last week 
VILNIUS, October 16. /TASS/. Lithuania and Russia agreed a spy exchange deal, the Baltic News Service (BNS) said on Wednesday. 
According to BNS sources, Lithuania is to transfer Nikolai Filipchenko, a Russian Federal Security Service agent convicted two years ago, in exchange for Yevgeny Mataitis and Aristidas Tamosaitis, two Lithuanian citizens convicted in Russia in 2016. Also, a Norwegian citizen sentenced in Russia and another Russian citizen were included in the swap deal. 
The BNS reported that the negotiations had lasted for about a year, while Vilnius okayed the move last week at a session of Lithuania’s State Defense Council chaired by President Gitanas Nauseda. 
In 2017 Russian citizen Filipchenko, who allegedly worked for the Russian Federal Security Service, was handed a ten-year prison term for espionage. Vilnius claimed that he was allegedly attempting to recruit employees of the Lithuanian VIP Protection Department. His aim was to install special equipment to spy on the country’s top officials. Filipchenko dismissed the accusations and stressed that he had caused no damage to Lithuania. 
A Russian court said that in 2009 Yevgeny Mataitis, a retired navy captain who had a dual citizenship of Lithuania and Russia, was recruited by the Lithuanian Defense Ministry’s intelligence department to gather information about Russia’s Armed Forces for money. He had been collecting and passing on classified military information for six years. At the trial, Mataitis confirmed the facts of recruitment and espionage and pleaded guilty. He was sentenced to 13 years in jail. 
The Lithuanian citizen Tamosaitis, jailed for 12 years in Russia for spying, was detained in May 2015 in Moscow while receiving classified documents from a Russian national. Having been shown the evidence, he confessed to spying. 
Paris, Berlin insist Turkish operation in Syria must be ceased, says French leader 
Emmanuel Macron also supported unified diplomatic pressure on Turkey, urging Ankara to stop the operation 
TOULOUSE, October 16. /TASS/. France and Germany are demanding that the Turkish offensive in Syria be stopped immediately, French President Emmanuel Macron said Wednesday following a French-German government-level meeting. 
We discussed the operation and demand that it be ceased, he stressed. According to the leader, the operation helps the ISIS terrorist organization to recover its positions. 
Macron also supported unified diplomatic pressure on Turkey, urging Ankara to stop the operation. The president believes that it is vital to coordinate position on this issue with Russia and Iran in particular, who play an important role in the region, he underlined. 
On October 9, Ankara launched a new military operation in northern Syria dubbed Peace Spring, which began with airstrikes on positions of Kurdish units. The objective is to create a buffer zone in northern Syria where Syrians refugees could return, Ankara claims. The buffer zone will also establish a security belt along the Turkish border. The Syrian SANA news agency branded the operation as aggression, while the international community condemned Ankara’s actions. 
Ukrainian parliament to set up commission to restore territorial integrity 
It will deliver reports during parliamentary sessions every three months 
KIEV, October 17. /TASS/. Members of Ukraine’s parliament, Verkhovna Rada, plans to set up a temporary special commission on restoring the territorial integrity and safeguarding sovereignty of Ukraine. 
The proposal, initiated by the Golos faction, was registered with the parliament’s secretariat on Wednesday, according to Verkhovna Rada’s official website. 
The commission will be tasked with defining principles and establishing the sequence of stages which Ukrainian governmental bodies and officials must observe, [and which are] aimed at restoring the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the country 
According to the draft, the main goal of the initiative is to ensure countermeasures against possible threats to Ukraine’s national interests in preparing and carrying out events aimed at deoccupation and reintegration of the occupied territories of Ukraine. 
In line with the proposal, the commission is to be set up for a one-year term. It will deliver reports during parliamentary sessions every three months. 
Sergei Rakhmanin, who chairs the Golos party faction in the parliament, was suggested to chair the commission, while Alexander Korniyenko from the pro-presidential Servant of the People faction in Verkhovna Rada was nominated to the post of his deputy. In total, the commission is to comprise 12 members of parliament representing all factions. 
According to Rakhmanin, the commission’s work would be difficult, but, in his opinion, lawmakers will be able to find points of convergence and contribute to the peace settlement process in eastern Ukraine’s Donbass region. 
Argentina identifies three senior military officers as submarine tragedy suspects — media 
About a year after its disappearance, the submarine was found lying on the seabed at the depth of 907 meters in November 2018 
BUENOS AIRES, October 17. /TASS/. Argentinean judge Marta Yanez summoned three high-ranking military officers for being questioned as suspects as part of the ongoing investigation into the loss of the San Juan submarine in 2017, the Clarin newspaper reported. 
The charges were filed against Capt. Hector Alonso, who headed the country's submarine fleet at the time when San Juan disappeared; Capt. Hugo Miguel Correa, the submarine fleet’s former operational chief; and Capt. Jorge Andres Sulia, who was in charge of the fleet’s logistics. 
The questioning was scheduled for October 22-24. The officials are suspected of neglecting their professional duties. 
Communication with the San-Jose diesel-electric submarine with 44 crew members on board was lost on 15 November 2017 during passage from the Ushuaia naval base. On the day of its mysterious disappearance, the crew reported that water had entered through a snorkel in the accumulator section, causing a short circuit in one of the batteries. During its last contact, the captain said that a fire had broke out, but had been contained, and the submarine continued to move toward the naval base in the city of Mar del Plata. 
A multinational search effort followed. Russia’s Yantar vessel was the last to leave the search area on April 1, 2018. 
A private US seabed survey company, Ocean Infinity, was hired by the Argentine government to continue the search. About a year after its disappearance, the San Juan was found lying on the seabed at the depth of 907 meters in November 2018. 
2019 Military World Games kicks off in central China's Wuhan 
WUHAN, China, Oct. 17, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- The 7th International Military Sports Council (CISM) Military World Games, which will open in the evening of October 18, is one of the most important international sporting events China has hosted. It is also the largest Games with the most participants and strongest influence since the event's establishment. Nearly 10,000 military personnel from over 100 countries will gather in central China's Wuhan to highlight military glory and world peace, according to the Executive Committee of the 7th CISM Military World Games. The charm of sports will put Wuhan in global spotlight. 
The world's largest 3D stage with a 360-degree panoramic view will be featured in the opening ceremony. The opening ceremony is ready to present a masterpiece with bench-marking significance, which will add luster to Wuhan, glory to China, and draw global attention, according to Li Jun, head of the director team of the opening and closing ceremonies and other relevant people in charge. 
The opening ceremony is divided into three parts. The first part is the pre-performance ceremony, including the welcoming ceremony, military music performance, emblem display, athletes' admission, national flag and event flag admission, flag raising ceremonies, VIP speeches, swearing in by athlete and referee representatives, opening announcement and athletes' departure. This part lasts for about one hour. 
The second part is made up by artistic performances.Themed The Fireworks of Peace, this part lasts for about 50 minutes and is divided into two sections. The first section highlights the long history of China while the second section displays the connectivity of the world and shared prosperity. The third part is the post-performance ceremony, including the torch relay and the lighting ceremony in the stadium, which will be ended with the event's theme song. 
A string of stage technologies will be used during the opening ceremony, making full use of the limited space to realize stage expansion with high and new technologies. Interaction with multimedia images will create a visual presentation of multi-dimensional effects, and present a 360-degree panoramic and three-dimensional space performance. 
The full three-dimensional stage will use projection technology in large areas for the first time. With the combination of lighting effects and LED display technology, simple yet grand and realistic stage effects will be created. The profound oriental civilization and vigorous contemporary China will be presented through gorgeous lighting colors, freehand brushwork style of Chinese aesthetics and contemporary art forms of expression, offering the audience an immersive experience. 
This year's Games will bring together top-notch athletes to stage a thrilling contest. 
Judging from the entries of the list of athletes, it's fair to say that this year's event has gathered a great number of top athletes, which will certainly stage a splendid sports event. 
Russia, Germany, France, Brazil and other countries are veterans in the Olympic Games and other world-class events as well as the CISM World Military Games. 
The Russian delegation, which won the first place in the total number of gold medals in five of the previous six Games, this year sent a lineup of more than 300 participants, including many world famous athletes. One of them is Ilya Zakharov, who outperformed China's springboard diving Dream Team to win the gold metal in the 3m springboard diving event at the London Olympics. Safin and Cheremisinovalso who won the gold medal in men's team foil competition and Inna Deriglazova who won the women's individual foil competition at the 2016 Rio Olympics will also attend this year's event. The team also features Mariya Lasitskene, who just won the world high jump champion at the IAAF World Athletics Championships in Doha. 
The Brazilian delegation has an impressive record in the CISM World Military Games. It once won the first place in the total number of gold medals in the fifth Games, and it was second only to Russia in the gold medal count in the 2018 event. This year Brazil sent a large delegation, second only to the Chinese delegation. It also has some competent athletes in the team, such as Arthur Zanetti, gymnastics champion of the 2012 London Olympic Games. 
The French delegation, the German delegation, the U.S. delegation and the South Korean delegation are all traditionally strong teams participating in the Games, with remarkable achievements in previous events. Meanwhile, there are many players with world championship titles among attending athletes. 
This year's Games is going to see a gathering of top players and heated competition, which is what the CISM welcomes and what the host country has been looking forward to since preparing for this year's Games. Chinese players are also looking forward to improving their competitive skills in contests with the world's top peers. 
More than 230,000 volunteers rally to offer comprehensive support. 
The Games has recruited 236,000 volunteers, including 210,000 city volunteers from all walks of life, such as national, provincial and municipal pioneers and models, college students and foreign students. 
The Games volunteers have received general training, professional training, pre-job training and other rounds of training. They will work for 13 categories of positions including concierge, language services, traffic guidance and audience services. 
The transportation and public transportation service guarantee for the Games is a heavy task, covering the venues of the Games, over 90 reception hotels, one civilian airport and three railway stations, according to the head of the Games' transportation operation center. 
The center's executive committee has organized training for more than 2,000 drivers and over 1,000 management personnel. In addition, public transport lines have been opened at all competition venues. 
A three-dimensional first aid system consisting of 120 ambulances, 2 helicopters and 6 medical boats is already in place. The meteorological authority has built 30 automatic weather stations within venues, which will offer meteorological services through the short-term proximity early warning system. 
The clarion call has been sounded, and the competition drum will soon be sounded too. Wuhan is presenting a new image of Chinese city to the world with a fresh style of being Different Everyday. 
Scientists discover mitochondrial cell 'calculator' capable of detecting cancer 
Experts note that the mitochondrial genome can be inherited only on the maternal side, has many copies and is prone to quick mutation 
MOSCOW, October 17. /TASS/. An international group of scientists led by a professor at the Institute of Living Systems at the Kant Baltic Federal University (Kaliningrad) and a senior scientist at the Federal Polytechnic University of Lausanne, Konstantin Popadin, has discovered a way of identifying potentially dangerous cells that, by dividing quickly, can cause cancer or cancer metastases, the university's press service reported on Thursday. 
“Theoretically it is possible to examine individual cells from tissue and by the number of mutations [nucleotides] from A to G” to determine potentially most dangerous cell (with a minimum number of mutations “from A to G”), the rapid division of which can cause cancer or metastases. If we ce can locate it, it means that in the future there might be a way to quickly neutralize it, the press service quoted Popadin as saying. 
The research, he noted, began with the scientists trying to understand the mutations emerging in the mitochondrial DNA. 
“I would like to note that the mitochondria exhisting in each of our cells have has their own separate genome, which significantly differs from our major nuclear genome. Firstly, the mitochondrial genome is inherited only on the maternal side. Secondly, it has a lot of copies. And thirdly, it mutates quite quickly — approximately ten times faster than the nuclear genome. Thus, due to these characterictics, the mitochondria are a kind of marker for the development of cell lines, the scientist explained. 
By observing mitochondria, one can determine from which particular cell the remaining cells of a particular tissue originated. This connection has been discovered quite a long time ago, however, we decided to go further and check whether mitochondrial mutations are somehow related to the functional features of tissues, said Popadin. 
Detecting the marker 
In the process of studying different types of tissue affected by cancer, it turned out that in the slowly dividing cells, out of 12 possible types of conversion of one nucleotide to another, the type of mutation significantly prevails, in which nucleotide A is replaced by nucleotide G. 
“We can coclude that the mutations from A to G mark long-living cells. This surprised us, and we decided to continue the study at a different level - we began to analyze the mitochondria of the egg cells: women who gave birth, relatively speaking, to 20 and 40 years old,” he said. 
Since the eggs do not divide after embryonic development, the age of fertilization of a woman [the age when a child is born — TASS] equals the egg's age. It turned out that in the case of 40-year-old mothers, “from A to G” type mutations significantly prevailed in mitochondria. Thus, the eggs accumulate mutations with age, mainly the type from A to G. At the next stage, the researchers investigated the mitochondria mutations of various kinds of animals. In particular, mice, elephants and whales. The latter have a very long (dozens of years) lifespan of eggs. The mitochondria of elephants and whales also showed a predominant mutation with nucleotide A being replaced by nucleotide G. 
And when we got the research results at three different levels, we made a conclusion that we discovered the rules for mitochondrial mutation. If a cell divides slowly, then it will have many mutations of the A to G type. We can assume that a kind of a calculator is working inside us showing how long the cell have lived, noted the scientist. 
The chemical mechanism of the conversion of nucleotide A to nucleotide G is not completely clear as of now, it is obvious, although, that such a mitochondrial “calculator” can be used for an early diagnosis of cancer, the researcher believes. 
Serbia to sign 172.5 mln-euro loan agreement with Russia 
BELGRADE, October 18. /TASS/. Russia and Serbia will sign an agreement on a loan of 172.5 mln euros during the upcoming visit of Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev to Belgrade, Serbia’s Ministry of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure announced on Friday. 
The Russian Prime Minister will visit Belgrade on Saturday. 
According to the ministry’s statement, the loan agreement will be signed between the governments of the two states. 
The amount of the Russian loan will be 172.5 mln euros, another 57.5 mln euros will be allocated by the Serbian side. The funds (230 mln euros) will be used for the construction of a railway to the border with Montenegro, the creation of a unified dispatch center, and electrical infrastructure in the sections of Belgrade - Budapest and Stara Pazova - Novi Sad. 
The agreement on the upgrade of 209.8 kilometers of the railway from the city of Valevo to the border with Montenegro will be signed by the Minister of Construction, Transport and Infrastructure Zorana Mihajlovic and the Director General of Russian Railways Oleg Belozerov. 
The agreement on the design and construction of the Unified Dispatch Center in the amount of 9.48 mln euros will be signed by Director General of the Serbian Railways Infrastructure Miroljub Ievtic and Director General of Russian Railways International Sergey Pavlov. 
Since 2014, Russian Railways International has been carrying out large-scale work on the modernization and construction of railway infrastructure in Serbia. At the moment, the reconstruction of the Belgrade-Pancevo section, railway facilities as part of the development of the Pan-European Transport Corridor X, the Resnik - Valevo section of the Belgrade - Bar line has been completed. Russian has also delivered its diesel trains to Serbia. 
Turkey ready to create safe zone in Syria alone, president says 
Erdogan added that Turkey and the US will have a lot to do after terrorists withdraw from the safe zone 
ISTANBUL, October 18. /TASS/. Ankara is ready to act alone to create a safe zone in Syria, regardless of an agreement reached with the US, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said at a meeting with foreign reporters in Istanbul on Friday, which particularly involved a TASS correspondent. 
A safe zone in Syria is supposed to be created in cooperation with the US but if necessary, Turkey is ready to act alone, he pointed out. 
Erdogan added that Turkey and the US will have a lot to do after terrorists withdraw from the safe zone. According to the Turkish leader, Ankara doesn’t plan to continue an endless fight against terrorists ins Syria because it is the responsibility of the Syrian regime. 
US-Turkey agreement 
On October 9, Ankara announced the launch of Operation Peace Spring in northern Syria. The operation’s goal is said to create a buffer zone along the Turkish border, where, according to Ankara, Syrian refugees residing in Turkey could return. The Syrian Arab News Agency (SANA) slammed the operation as aggression. The international community condemned Ankara’s move. 
On Thursday, Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan and US Vice President Michael Pence held talks in Ankara. Pence said following the meeting that the parties had agreed on a pause in the Turkish offensive in northern Syria to give Kurdish units a chance to leave the border safe zone that Ankara is creating. The Turkish side will pause Operation Peace Spring in order to allow the withdrawal of YPG from the safe zone within 120 hours. Operation Peace Spring will be halted upon completion of this withdrawal, the agreement reads. 
Johnson sends three letters on Brexit to European Council president — TV 
LONDON, October 20. /TASS/. UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson sent three letters to President of the European Council Donald Tusk early on Sunday, including a formal extension request and a personal letter saying that another Brexit delay would be a mistake, Sky News reported citing government sources. 
Earlier on Sunday, Tusk confirmed he had received the first letter. The extension request has just arrived, he said in a Twitter post. I will now start consulting EU leaders on how to react. 
Johnson was obliged to send this letter to the EU until Sunday, if the UK parliament fails to approve the Brexit deal with Brussels. The text of the formal extension request was earlier approved by the parliament and cannot be amended. Johnson, however, did not sign the formal document. 
The second message is a covering letter by Permanent Representative of the United Kingdom to the European Union Tim Barrow, which says the first letter was sent on an initiative of the UK parliament, not Johnson himself. 
The third letter is a personal letter from Johnson, in which, according to Sky News, the UK premier describes a Brexit delay as a mistake, which would not be harmful for both the UK and the EU. 
While it is open to the European Council to accede to the request mandated by Parliament or to offer an alternative extension period, I have made clear since becoming Prime Minister, and made clear to the Parliament again today, my view, and the Government’s position, that a further extension would damage the interests of the UK and our EU partners, and the relationship between us, reads the letter, released by The Guardian. 
Johnson expressed confidence that his country would complete the Brexit process by the end of the month. 
Meanwhile, although I would have preferred a different result today, the Government will press ahead with the ratification and introduce the necessary legislation early next week. I remain confident that we will complete that process by 31 October, the UK premier said in the letter. 
Indeed, many of those who voted against the Government today have indicated their support for the new deal and for ratifying it without delay, he added. 
The UK prime minister said he was ready to arrive to an emergency EU summit, which may be necessary to approve the delay, in order to express the UK government’s stance to the leaders of the remaining 27 EU members. 
Therefore, Johnson formally observed the law, but his political opponents may try to initiate judicial proceedings against him, accusing the premier of violating the spirit of it. 
During an emergency parliamentary session on Saturday, the UK government failed in its attempt to push its draft Brexit agreement through the House of Commons. The lawmakers adopted an amendment, introduced by former Conservative party member Oliver Letwin, which made senseless the vote on the agreement, expected to be held later on Saturday evening. 
The text of the amendment says that the deal with the EU will not be approved by the parliament unless the House of Commons adopts all bills, necessary for Brexit. In fact, this means a new delay of Brexit, which, according to Letwin and his supporters, is necessary for avoiding a no-deal Brexit as a result of unforeseen contingencies or a simple lack of time to complete all the required legal procedures. 
After the vote, UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson expressed his regret by the decision. 
Russia widens defense cooperation with African states aiming to defend sovereignty - Putin 
The Russian leader reiterated that the traditions of Moscow’s defense cooperation with African nations were deeply rooted 
MOSCOW, October 21. /TASS/. Russia’s defense cooperation with African nations is developing rapidly, with new agreements often being initiated by countries who need to protect their sovereignty and independence, Russian President Vladimir Putin told TASS in an interview in the run-up to the Russia-Africa summit. 
It is encouraging that military technical partnership continues to evolve vigorously, he said. What’s more, African countries often initiate such cooperation themselves, because they understand that one should be able to protect its independence and sovereignty, including from extremist and terrorist groups. 
It is yet another incentive to cooperate with Russia, which has abundant experience in fighting terrorism, including in Syria, Putin continued. 
The Russian leader reiterated that the traditions of Moscow’s defense cooperation with African nations were deeply rooted. 
It was developed back at a nascent stage of establishment of African states and played its role in the fight of peoples of the continent for their independence, he said. And our African partners highly appreciate it. 
Today, we have agreements on military technical cooperation with more than thirty African countries which we supply with a wide range of military equipment, Putin added. Of course, part of it is being transferred at no charge. But this is common practice followed by all leading world countries. 
In his words, African partners actively participate in military-technical forums and military exercises organized by Russia, in the framework of which they get acquainted with Russian advanced weapons, military hardware and experience of its use. 
For our part, we will further contribute to training military personnel of African states and take part in training African peacekeepers, the Russian president added. 
Russia-Africa summit 
The Russia-Africa Summit will be held in the Russian Black Sea resort city of Sochi on October 23-24. It will be co-chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Egyptian counterpart Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. The leaders of all 54 African countries have been invited to attend. Over 40 of them have already confirmed their participation. On the summit’s sidelines, an economic forum will take place, which will be attended by the heads of state alongside representatives of governments, business and African integration associations. 
Russia, Ethiopia to agree on deal to settle remaining debt soon, says Putin 
We therefore decided that it would be best for everyone just to start our cooperation from scratch, Russian President added 
MOSCOW, October 21, /TASS/. Moscow plans to reach an agreement with Ethiopia on settling the country’s remaining debt soon, Russian President Vladimir Putin told TASS in an interview in the run-up to the Russia-Africa summit. 
Let me point put that in the post-Soviet period, at the end of the 20th century, Russia cancelled $20 billion of African countries' debts to the Soviet Union, the Russian leader said. This was both an act of generosity and a pragmatic step, because many of the African states were unable to service those debts. 
We therefore decided that it would be best for everyone just to start our cooperation from scratch, he added. 
In his words, other arrangements are currently being used for some of the remaining debts. As an example, Putin cited the debt-for-development swap program, which serves as a basis for intergovernmental agreements with Madagascar, Mozambique and Tanzania. 
We expect that Ethiopia's remaining debt to Russia ($163.6 million) will be settled under similar conditions. The relevant draft agreement is currently being elaborated, the Russian president said. 
He added that Russia makes contributions to international programs of assistance to Africa in the framework of the UN Development Programme, the World Food Programme (WFP), and the International Civil Defence Organisation. 
Sometimes in-kind support is provided, Putin continued. Since 2011, WFP offices in Africa have received 258 KAMAZ trucks. Another batch of 75 trucks has been shipped most recently. 
The Russian leader explained that economic problems would be considered during the economic forum on October 23-24. 
We are ready to hear proposals from our African partners and share our considerations, he said. 
Russia-Africa summit 
The Russia-Africa Summit will be held in the Russian Black Sea resort city of Sochi on October 23-24. It will be co-chaired by Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Egyptian counterpart Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. The leaders of all 54 African countries have been invited to attend. Over 40 of them have already confirmed their participation. On the summit’s sidelines, an economic forum will take place, which will be attended by the heads of state alongside representatives of governments, business and African integration associations. 
Russia set to continue constructive dialogue with North Korea 
Russia attaches great importance to the North Korean delegation’s visit to Moscow, and a rich program prepared for the delegation would contribute to better understanding of processes happening in Russia 
MOSCOW, October 21. /TASS/. Russia attaches great importance to the North Korean delegation’s visit to Moscow and is set to continue constructive dialogue and joint cooperation, Russian Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko told a meeting with Speaker of North Korea’s Supreme People’s Assembly (parliament) Pak Thae-song. 
We believe that your visit to Russia confirms serious determination of the North Korean leadership to promote cooperation with Russia. For my part, I want to highlight that our country has the same determination to continue constructive dialogue and close joint work for the sake of our countries and our people, Matviyenko said. 
According to Matviyenko, the North Korean parliament speaker is known in Russia as a prominent statesman and a person who has made a great contribution to developing bilateral relations as well as to strengthening friendship between the two nations. 
We attach great importance to your visit to Russia. We believe that it will serve not only to enhance Russian-North Korean parliamentary cooperation but will also enable us to boost cooperation between our states in various spheres, she said. 
Russia’s upper house speaker also voiced hope that a rich program prepared for the delegation would contribute to better understanding of processes happening in Russia and will also familiarize it with the country’s culture and history. 
Matviyenko noted that Russian lawmakers cherish good memories about their last year’s visit to North Korea as well as the meeting with the country’s leader. It was a very interesting and very substantive conversation, she stated. 
The North Korean delegation led by the chairman of the Supreme People’s Assembly arrived in Russia on Monday at Matviyenko’s invitation. 
UNESCO to decide on creating Mendeleev prize in November 
In September, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev announced that Russia had filed a proposal to UNESCO to create a Mendeleev prize for young scientists 
PARIS, October 22. /TASS/. The UNESCO Executive Board will submit a proposal to the UNESCO General Conference due in November to establish a prize in the area of fundamental research to commemorate renowned Russian scientist Dmitri Mendeleev, a source in the UNESCO Secretariat told TASS on Tuesday. 
On Monday, the Executive Board adopted this proposal and decided to recommend the General Conference to establish a Dmitri Mendeleev prize, a high-placed Secretariat employee said. Now it is up to the General Conference session, which will take place in Paris on November 12-27 and is expected to be attended by almost 200 countries, the source underlined. 
In September, Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev told a meeting with Nobel laureates, heads of chemical associations and representatives of Russian and international scientific organizations that Russia had filed a proposal to UNESCO to create a Mendeleev prize for young scientists. 
The UN General Assembly designated 2019 as the International Year of the Periodic Table to commemorate the 150th anniversary of Mendeleev discovering the periodic law. UNESCO Director General Audrey Azoulay officially launched the International Year of the Periodic Table at a ceremony in Paris in January. 
The International Year of the Periodic Table is held under UNESCO’s auspices in many countries around the world — Russia, France, Spain, Sweden, Japan and others. As part of the International Year, Russia has been holding more than 500 scientific and educational events to attract school children, students and youngsters to science and its achievements. 
All witnesses except for one say that Whelan not involved in espionage — lawyer 
Moscow’s Lefortovo Court prolonged Whelan’s arrest until December 29, the trials will start in May 2020 
MOSCOW, October 24. /TASS/. Most witnesses in US national Paul Whelan’s case say that he is not involved in spying against Russia, lawyer for the defendant Vladimir Zherebenkov told TASS. 
Much in the case is in Whelan's favor. In particular, all witnesses say that he is not involved in spying. Only one person claimed that he had conducted intelligence activities and told of a USB flash drive with secret information. Whelan believes it to be the FSB’s provocation,Zherebenkov stated. 
Moscow’s Lefortovo Court prolonged Whelan’s arrest until December 29 on Thursday. 
According to Zherebenkov, the consideration on the merits will start roughly in May 2020. We will appeal against the arrest decision. It will take time. Then all formalities will be completed, and the case will go to the Moscow City Court where the consideration on the merits will start. It will take place roughly in May 2020, he said. 
Zherebenkov added that Whelan is actively studying the case. Pages are translated into English for him, and he studies them. He bears himself with humor and dignity, the lawyer commented. 
US citizen Paul Whelan, aged 48, who also holds British, Canadian and Irish passports, is a global security chief at BorgWarner, a Michigan-based automotive components company. The Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) informed that Whelan had been detained on December 28, 2018 in Moscow while on a spy mission. A criminal investigation was opened against him on espionage charges carrying a punishment of up to 20 years behind bars. 
Foreign secret services looking for cracks in Russia’s IT infrastructure — official 
More than 1.7 million harmful attacks on information resources of state bodies of the Siberian Federal District have been registered this year, according to the security top brass 
OMSK, October 25. /TASS/. Secret services of foreign states are deliberately looking for vulnerabilities in the Russian information infrastructure to launch cyberattacks, Russian Security Council Secretary Nikolai Patrushev said on Friday at a meeting on national security issues in the Siberian Federal District. 
Foreign secret services are purposefully working on determining vulnerabilities in the Russian information infrastructure to carry out mass computer attacks. Russian critical information facilities remain the key targets to deal a harmful blow, which creates real threats to the national security, Patrushev stated. 
He underlined that all Siberian regions have their state authorities' information resources connected to the Russian state Internet segment, while the segment itself is an appealing target for attacks and destructive action in view of its state use. 
This year alone <…> more than 1.7 million harmful attacks on information resources of state bodies of the Siberian Federal District regions have been registered, the official noted. 
Saudi Arabia, OPEC+ played key role in oil market stabilization, says Russian ministry 
Russia’s Energy Ministry stressed that after drone attacks on Saudi Aramco’s oil facilities in September, Saudi Arabia was able to quickly restore its oil production capacity 
MOSCOW, October 25. /TASS/. The situation on the global oil market is currently stable and Saudi Arabia, which is Russia’s partner under the OPEC+ agreement, made a large contribution for its stabilization, Russia’s Energy Ministry said in a statement on Friday. 
The ministry stressed that after drone attacks on Saudi Aramco’s oil facilities in September, Saudi Arabia was able to quickly restore its oil production capacity. 
We note the important role of our partners from Saudi Arabia and the OPEC+ countries in minimizing the effect of destabilizing actions on the market. The prompt restoration of production capacities in the kingdom after the drone attack once again underscored the professionalism and reliability of the largest producers in the industry, as well as the ability to quickly respond to uncertainties, the ministry said. 
Russia continues to intensively cooperate with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and OPEC+ partners in order to increase the stability and predictability of the market, the statement said. 
According to the Energy Ministry, the unpredictability of the outcome of trade negotiations between the US and China, as well as the risks of a slowdown in global GDP growth are the main factors affecting the uncertainty of world market. 
RDIF Director General Kirill Dmitriev said earlier that swift resumption of oil production in Saudi Arabia proved Aramco’s high professionalism and stability in the face of a serious attack on the oil sector and global economy. Russia’s strategic partnership with Saudi Arabia continues to play a key role for the establishment of OPEC+ and stabilization of oil markets. 
Drone attacks 
The facilities of the national oil company Saudi Aramco in the east of Saudi Arabia were attacked by ten drones in the small hours on September 14. Yemeni Houthi rebels from the Ansar Allah movement claimed responsibility for the incident. Particularly, the world’s biggest oil refinery near the city of Abqaiq and a refinery near Khurais, where Saudi’s second largest oil field is located, came under the attack. 
The U.S., Saudi Arabia, the U.K., France and Germany blamed Iran for the attacks. According to them, the attacks involved drones and missiles, which are not in the arsenal of Houthi rebels. Tehran denied the accusations calling them groundless. 
As a result of the attacks, the kingdom reduced crude production by 5.7 mln barrels per day out of 9.8 mln barrels. 
Explosions at the oil facilities in Saudi Arabia led to a sharp jump in oil prices. By mid-September, Brent oil price exceeded $70 per barrel. As the oil production in Saudi Arabia is gradually restored, the oil price is adjusted. 
Lavrov calls on Norway to help in normalization of Russia-NATO relations 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov completed his official visit to Norway on Friday 
KIRKENES, October 26. /TASS/. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov has completed his official visit to Norway's Kirkenes on Friday. 
Lavrov visited Kirkenes to take part in celebrations of the 75th anniversary of northern Norway's liberation from Nazi occupation by the Red Army. This was the third visit of the Russian foreign minister to Kirkenes. Lavrov last visited in 2014 to take part in celebrations of the 70th anniversary of northern Norway's liberation. 
Norway's King Harald V and Prime Minister Erna Solberg also took part in the celebrations. However, the Russian delegation headed by the foreign minister and accompanied by journalists was most impressed not by the scale of celebrations, but rather by the warmth and sincerity with which Norwegians remembered and honored the heroes of the Second World War. 
Peaceful border 
Apart from taking part in celebrations, Lavrov held comprehensive talks with his Norwegian counterpart Ine Eriksen Soreide in the border museum. Before the talks, the foreign ministers opened an exhibition of old maps dedicated to the 70th anniversary of the Treaty between the USSR and Norway on the joint border regime and procedure for settling border conflicts and incidents from 1949. 
Lavrov noted that the border between Russia and Norway can be described as the most peaceful in Europe. Soreide in turn presented a photograph to Lavrov which confirms his words - it showed Russian and Norwegian border guards shaking hands across the border. 
Mediator with NATO 
The foreign ministers openly discussed the situation in northern Europe, including increased NATO activity on the territory of Norway. Lavrov said that he does not consider Norway to be a security threat but noted that Moscow needs to consider the activities of the North Atlantic Treaty in Norway in its military planning. 
The Norwegian foreign minister in turn confirmed that Oslo's basis policy (non-stationing of foreign military bases in peaceful times) remains relevant. Lavrov added that resumed contacts between Russian and Norwegian defense ministries should help strengthen trust between Moscow and Oslo. 
The Russian foreign minister reminded about the long tradition of Norwegian diplomacy and suggested for Oslo to facilitate normalization of dialogue between Russia and NATO. Venezuela is important [Norway mediates in talks between the Venezuelan government and opposition], but Europe is close, Lavrov said. 
Lavrov told a press conference that he informed Soreide about the implementation of the Russian-Turkish joint memorandum on Syria. Commenting on the proposal of Germany's foreign minister Annegret Kramp-Karrenbauer to establish an international security zone in northeastern Syria, the Russian foreign minister reminded that Russian-Turkish agreements supported by both Damascus and Kurds already exist. If we are talking about NATO wanting to take this task upon itself, then this idea brings nothing good, and one should not try to make better something that already works, he noted. 
Berg's return 
Norwegian reporters asked Lavrov a lot of questions about the fate of Norwegian national Frode Berg jailed in Russia for espionage. Lavrov said that Berg may return home as soon as his petition for pardoning is considered. 
The Russian foreign minister stressed that the spy theme does not affect bilateral relations in any way. 
Cuban president arrives in St. Petersburg during visit to Russia 
Diaz-Canel visited Piskaryovskoye memorial cemetery, where more than half a million citizens and defenders of Leningrad during the siege were buried, and laid flowers to the Mother Motherland monument 
ST.PETERSBURG, October 27. /TASS/. Cuban President Miguel Diaz-Canel, who is paying a visit to Russia, has arrived in St. Petersburg, where he is scheduled to spend two days, the city’s committee for external relations told TASS. 
On Sunday, Diaz-Canel visited Piskaryovskoye memorial cemetery, where more than half a million citizens and defenders of Leningrad during the siege were buried, and laid flowers to the Mother Motherland monument. 
The Cuban president will spend two days in St. Petersburg. On Monday, he is scheduled to meet with the city mayor, Alexander Beglov, and will later head to Moscow, a spokesperson said, noting that at the meeting the sides planned to discuss the issues of cultivating cooperation between St. Petersburg and Cuba. 
Earlier, the Cuban president said he planned to hold talks with Russian President Vladimir Putin during his visit. 
Ukraine is ready to resume direct deliveries of Russian gas since 2020 — top brass 
Russia is ready for gas transit through Ukraine under the European law, according to the energy minister 
MOSCOW, October 28. / TASS /. The Russian Ministry of Energy sees the readiness of partners from Ukraine to begin supplying Russian gas directly starting in 2020, the Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak said in an interview with Russia-24 TV channel following trilateral consultations on gas between Russia, the EU and Ukraine on Monday. 
We also discussed issues of gas supplies to Ukraine. We see the readiness of our partners, including on gas supplies, from 2020, directly, he said. Specific figures will be discussed later. 
As for Russia, it is ready to ensure gas transit through Ukraine in 2020 in accordance with the European law, if the Ukrainian side is geared up for this, Alexander Novak commented following the tripartite consultations on gas. 
The energy minister pointed out that Russia was ready to work with Ukraine under the existing contract for gas transit through the country until Ukraine implements European legislation. It is important for us, we have emphasized this the previous time — we are ready to work under European law. If our partners cannot implement this legislation in time, we are ready to work on the basis of the existing contract with technical adjustments after 2020 and until the law is implemented, he said. 
As a backup plan, we are ready to ensure extension of the current gas transit agreement to 2020. However if our Ukrainian colleagues are ready to work under the European law, we are also ready to ensure gas transit through Ukraine from 2020 under this legislation, Novak stated. 
Russia, the European Union and Ukraine agree to endeavor to avoid traps and pitfalls in new Ukrainian gas transit legislation, Russian Minister of Energy Alexander Novak went on. 
We will also continue analyzing the regulatory base of Ukrainian legislation in terms of interaction in order to confirm once again, from the Russian side and from the European Commission’s side, that the Ukrainian legislation corresponds to the European legislation, without any pitfalls there. We agreed upon that. In my opinion, negotiations were positive — we will continue interacting with our colleagues. Next consultations are agreed to be held in late November, Novak said. 
We will study the methodology published on October 25, the methodology of fixing tariffs on gas pumping from the territory of Ukraine. We await publishing not merely in Ukrainian but also in English. This will be discussed shortly. We will make the analysis in respect of competitiveness of tariffs and other routes. This is an important point pertaining to the efficiency of implementing the project of gas pumping via the Ukraine’s gas transmission system, the Minister added. 
The current 10-year contract for the transit of Russian gas through Ukraine expires at the end of this year. By this time, Russia plans to launch two gas pipelines bypassing Ukraine — the Nord Stream 2 and the TurkStream. 
Settlement of legal disputes 
The Russian Energy Ministry supports an end-to-end solution with Ukraine, comprising gas transit and supplies and settlement of litigation, Minister Alexander Novak told reporters on Monday. 
An important point we have discussed today was related to other aspects of our relations, including settlement of legal disputes. We believe they should be resolved in a package, including issues related to Russian gas supplies directly to Ukrainian consumers, bypassing reverse. This is also an issue that has been discussed today, the Minister said. 
Next trilateral gas consultations 
The next trilateral consultations on gas between Russia, the European Union, and Ukraine will be held at the end of November, the Russian energy minister reported. 
Next consultations will be held at the end of November. We have a positive attitude, and, in my opinion, the meeting was quite constructive, he said. There are, of course, questions and risks. We will resolve these issues together in the future, Novak added. 
Signing gas transit agreement 
Russia, the European Union and Ukraine are set to sign the gas transit agreement this year, Alexander Novak said. 
We see in general that the European Commission and Ukrainian partners have constructive mood; we will continue our interaction, Novak commented. 
Everyone aims at finding all the required solutions to ensure gas pumping, gas transit from 2020, and we will continue working intensively at the level of ministries and the level of companies, he added. 
Nord Stream 2 
The Nord Stream 2 project was discussed only at the bilateral meeting between representatives of Russia and the European Commission; this issue was not raised at tripartite consultations on gas with the participation of Ukraine, Russian Energy Minister Alexander Novak informed after the meeting. 
No, we did not discuss this issue at the trilateral meeting today. We discussed it during bilateral negotiations with the European Commissioner Mr. Sefcovic. We emphasized once again that this is a commercial project, Europe is interested in it, and expressed negative attitude to possible sanctions on this project, Novak said in an interview with Russia-24. 
Spray and vanish: Troops use aerosol screen to hide redeploying forces during Volga drills 
The drills involved about 500 personnel and over 30 items of military hardware 
MOSCOW, October 29. /TASS/. Radiation, chemical and biological protection troops from Russia’s Central Military District used an aerosol screen to hide the motorized infantry’s redeployment during the final end-of-year drills at the Chapayev training range in the Samara Region, the District’s press office reported on Tuesday. 
Specialists of the radiation, chemical and biological protection troops employed TDA-3 thermo-smoke vehicles to generate an aerosol cloud about 2km long in front of a notional enemy. Therefore, the chemical warfare troops managed to hide the motorized infantry’s maneuvers from the enemy’s observation devices, which helped accomplish the assigned mission without any casualties, the press office said. 
The drills involved about 500 personnel and over 30 items of military hardware. 
Moldovan president confirms Russian gas discount starting this month 
In the first quarter of 2019, the price of the Russian gas for Moldova stood at $235 per 1,000 cubic meters 
CHISINAU, October 31. /TASS/. Moldovan President Igor Dodon confirmed that the discount of $10-15 per 1,000 cubic meters of gas for Moldova, which he negotiated with Russian President Vladimir Putin in September, has entered force. 
Indeed, Moldova has been receiving cheaper gas from Gazprom starting from October 1, Dodon said in an interview with the Moldova1 TV. 
Starting from January 1, 2020, the discount may grow to $40-50 [per 1,000 cubic meters of gas], he said. 
In the first quarter of 2019, the price of the Russian gas for Moldova stood at $235 per 1,000 cubic meters. 
After a meeting with Putin on September 7, Dodon announced Russia would cut the price of gas it deliver to Moldova by $10-15 per 1,000 cubic meters from October 1. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, in turn, said the final discount will be agreed at the expert level. 
Moldova’s contract for the Russian gas expires in 2019. The previous government, in Dodon’s words, lowballed gas tariffs and left an ‘energy bomb’ that may send gas prices [for the population] hiking.. 
Kremlin says Russians’ interest in Putin’s past is ‘quite natural’ 
The Kremlin spokesman has commented on the appearance of Putin’s performance evaluation report during his KGB career in the exposition 
MOSCOW, October 31. /TASS/. Considerable interest in facts and documents related to Russian President Vladimir Putin’s past is quite natural, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov told TASS, commenting on the appearance of Putin’s performance evaluation report during his KGB career in the Central State Archive’s exposition of historical and political documents of St. Petersburg. The document has never been exhibited before. 
Yes, we believe such interest is quite natural, Peskov stated, when asked whether the Kremlin believed that such tremendous interests in Putin’s biography was a natural thing. 
The exhibition titled Outstanding figures in national history of the 20th and 21st centuries is dedicated to 90 personalities and their accomplishments in politics, military affairs, science, culture and the arts. The exposition includes documents dedicated to the 75th anniversary of the Victory over Nazism, the 170th anniversary marking the birth of physiologist Ivan Pavlov and the 155th birth anniversary of engineer Heinrich Graftio credited as the one who pioneered hydroelectric station construction. 
The exhibition also features forms and applications filled out by Vladimir Putin who was at that time a member of the All-Union Young Communist League, and Valentina Matviyenko, the current Speaker of the Russian Federation Council (upper house of parliament) as well as letters, photos and documents with official approvals or instructions by first and last Soviet President Mikhail Gorbachev and Yuri Gagarin, who was the first person to journey into outer space. 
Attempts to substitute international law destructive — Lavrov 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov stressed that Moscow only recognizes international law enshrined in conventions and UN Security Council resolutions 
MOSCOW, November 1. /TASS/. Any attempts to use rules that go against international law, are destructive, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov told Rossiya-24 TV channel on Friday. 
I think that no one wants to end up in the world with rules that would mean lawlessness for everyone else. If European colleagues give in to the United States on the issues that I had mentioned — OPCW [Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons] and several other matters — they are acting in accordance with the situation, Lavrov said. They don't understand that this will be reproduced in other situations, when they will have to give up international law and accept the rules forced on them from outside, he added. 
Such developments are rather easy to predict, the Russian foreign minister said noting the example of Libyan developments. When this country was being destroyed, terrorists were being used to overthrow the regime of Muammar Gaddafi. When Muammar Gaddafi was overthrown, terrorists went to Mali. And then our French colleagues, who previously openly admitted to supplying them with weapons, started to ask us for support in the figt against those terrorists in Mali, Lavrov noted. 
Lavrov stressed that Russia only recognizes international law enshrined in conventions and UN Security Council resolutions. 
Session of SCO Council in narrow format starts in Tashkent 
Russia is represented by Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov 
TASHKENT, November 2. /TASS/. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and heads of governments of Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) member countries have started the meeting in the narrow format. 
Russia is represented by Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev and Deputy Foreign Minister Igor Morgulov. Uzbekistan's delegation is headed by Prime Minister Abdulla Aripov and national coordination for SCO Rahmatulla Nurimbetov. India is represented by Defense Minister Rajnath Singh and Deputy Foreign Minister Anumula Gitesh Sarma. 
Kazakhstan is represented by Prime Minister Askar Mamin and Minister of National Economy Ruslan Dalenov. The Chinese delegation is led by Premier of the State Council Li Keqiang and Deputy Foreign Minister Le Yucheng. Kyrgyzstan is represented by Prime Minister Muhammedkaly Abylgaziyev and Minister of Economy Sanjar Mukanbetov. Pakistan's delegation is led by Foreign Minister Shah Mehmood Qureshi and national coordinator for SCO Ahmed Zahur. Tajikistan is represented by Prime Minister Kokhir Rasulzoda and Minister of Economic Development and Trade Nematullo Hikmatullozoda. 
The heads of delegations will approve the new version of the Program for bilateral trade and economic cooperation between SCO member countries until 2035. 
Chief of anti-extremism center for Ingushetia shot dead in Moscow 
According to earlier reports, shooting was heard near building 2 on Academician Anokhin Street 
MOSCOW, November 2. /TASS/. Ibragim Eldzharkiyev, chief of the Ingushetia department of the Russian interior ministry’s anti-extremism center, has been shot and killed in Moscow, a source in the emergencies services told TASS on Saturday. 
Chief of the Ingushetia department of the Russian interior ministry’s anti-extremism center Ibragim Eldzharkiyev was shot dead on Academician Anokhin Street (in the west of Moscow), he said. 
According to earlier reports, shooting was heard near building 2 on Academician Anokhin Street. Two people were killed. 
According to a TASS source in law enforcement agencies, Eldzharkiyev survived an assassination attempt in January 2019 when his car came under gunfire while moving from Chechnya to Ingushetia. Three policemen who were in the car received serious gun wounds. Eldzharkiyev was intact. 
Europe can’t incentivize Iran to implement nuclear deal — senior Russian diplomat 
The diplomat denounced the trend among the European parties to the JCPOA to put all the blame on Tehran 
TEL AVIV, November 7. /TASS/. European countries cannot come up with an economic incentive for Iran to implement the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) and that is why Iran is choosing to scale back on its commitments assumed under the nuclear deal, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov told Russian reporters on Thursday during his working trip to Israel. 
According to the diplomat, it is premature to talk about holding meeting between foreign ministers from the five international mediators (Russia, China, France, Germany and the United Kingdom) and Iran on the nuclear deal. 
For such a ministerial meeting to be productive, it needs to be properly arranged. We are not quite sure now that primarily European parties to the JCPOA adequately assess these developments, they are also starting to follow the trend of putting all the blame on Tehran. This is not right, the result of their [European parties to the JCPOA] insufficient efforts, inability to offer economic incentives to Iran for fully complying with the JCPOA is that Iran is gradually shedding the assumed obligations, obligations that were assumed voluntarily, Ryabkov said. 
These obligations are what Iran willingly assumed to implement the JCPOA, it is put down in the JCPOA precisely like that, he underlined. Therefore, when the country is not feeling an economic impact, it naturally decides to take certain steps to reduce the burden of its commitments, he continued. We understand this reasoning. We are not completely sure whether the Europeans understand it, therefore, now it seems to be premature to mention such a ministerial meeting, he concluded. 
Tensions over Iran’s nuclear program exacerbated after Washington unilaterally withdrew from the JCPOA on May 8, 2018 and slapped US economic sanctions on Iran’s oil exports. A year later, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani said that Tehran was scaling back some of its commitments under the JCPOA and called on other signatories to the deal to comply with the conditions of the agreement within two months. The JCPOA was signed between Iran, the five permanent members of the United Nations Security Council (Russia, the United Kingdom, China, the United States and France) and Germany in 2015. Under the deal, Iran undertook to curb its nuclear activities and place them under total control of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in exchange for abandonment of the sanctions imposed previously by the United Nations Security Council, the European Union and the United States over its nuclear program. 
Iran pledged not to enrich uranium above the level of 3.67% for 15 years and maintain enriched uranium stockpiles at the level not exceeding 300 kg, as well as not to build new heavy-water reactors, not to accumulate heavy water and not to develop nuclear explosive devices. 
In May 2019, Iran announced the first step of scrapping the JCPOA commitments by halting sales of enriched uranium for 60 days. On July 7, Tehran proceeded to the second stage of scaling down its commitments and announced it had exceeded the 3.67%-level of uranium enrichment. In addition, it promised to keep on reducing its commitment every 60 days if other participants in the deal were not committed to the deal. The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) confirmed on July 1 and July 8 that Iran had exceeded the 300 kg limit set for its stockpiles of low enriched uranium and had exceeded the 3.67% enrichment threshold. 
On September 6, Tehran launched the first step of scaling back on its commitments to the nuclear deal, which meant that the country refused to observe the restrictions placed on nuclear research. The Iranian side claimed that the actions were prompted by the European parties not complying with their obligations. On Tuesday, Iranian President Hassan Rouhani announced further steps away from its JCPOA obligations on November 6 by launching centrifuges at the Fordow enrichment facility. 
Six injured in Novorossiysk oil depot fire in grave condition 
An oil storage tank covering an area of 200 square meters went up in flames at the Grushovaya oil depot of the Sheskharis oil transfer complex in Novorossiysk on Thursday 
KRASNODAR, November 7. /TASS/. Six people who were injured during an oil storage tank blaze at the Grushovaya oil depot of the Sheskharis oil transfer complex in Novorossiysk were hospitalized. They are in grave condition, the press service of the Krasnodar Region Health Ministry told TASS on Thursday. 
All six people were rushed to the hospital to be examined by doctors after the fire. The Investigative Department for the Krasnodar Region of the Russian Investigative Committee told journalists that those injured had burns of varying severity. 
Six people have been hospitalized. They are in grave condition, the press service said. 
An oil storage tank covering an area of 200 square meters went up in flames at the Grushovaya oil depot of the Sheskharis oil transfer complex in Novorossiysk on Thursday. The blaze scorched 200 square meters, before being put out, with no reported deaths. 
Novorossiysk’s prosecutors and the Investigative Department for the Krasnodar Region of the Russian Investigative Committee have started an inquiry. According to preliminary information, the oil storage tank became engulfed in flames after a steam-air mixture exploded during welding work. Chernomortransneft said that a contracting organization had been carrying out the repair work. 
Zigmabit Launches Revolutionary Mining Chip 
TOKYO, Nov. 8, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- Zigmabit is growing fast in the crypto mining industry. The company recently launched three multi-algorithm mining rigs that assure maximum return on investment within just one month. Zigmabit just launched a customer care facility in Munich Germany to serve customers better. 
Zigbit Miners, the world's first DLC (direct liquid cooling) mining rig, is designed for the beginners as well seasoned crypto miners. All three products are easy to use as they come pre-configured and the users only need to plug in and start mining. 
Though the popularity of crypto mining has increased by leaps and bounds over the years, earning profits consistently has been a concern for many mining enthusiasts. Zigmabit is the brainchild of a team of investors dedicated to making cryptocurrency mining simpler and profitable for all. 
Zigmabit (www.zigmabit.com) has a team of experts that have been actively involved in the crypto industry since its very early days. The company's three new crypto miners, ZigBit 2.0, ZigBit 3.0 and ZigBit 5.0 were designed with the goal of delivering products that will ensure higher profitability for the users. 
The company has accomplished this objective by maximizing the hash rate to a level that has never been achieved in this industry. These miners can operate under multiple algorithms and are capable of mining Bitcoin, Litecoin, Ethereum, and Dash. Mentioned below are the hash rate powers offered by the three miners. 
In order to stand out in a highly competitive market, Zigmabit Miners has also included smart features such as closed-loop cooling system, noiseless fans, silent high-pressure pumps, super-efficient radiators, and much more. 
About Zigmabit Inc.: 
Zigmabit Inc. is a manufacturer of high-quality cryptocurrency miners that deliver extremely high hash power without consuming a lot of power. Their team comprises of several top-level professionals from renowned organizations such as Samsung, Microsoft, IBM, and many others. Headquartered in Tokyo, Japan, the company currently has a manufacturing facility in the United Kingdom and Newly opened facility in Munich Germany. 
Putin urges for utmost freedom, best conditions for startups 
According to the president, creative people should be reassured that they are needed, that they will get support and that they will achieve success nowhere else but in Russia 
MOSCOW, November 9. /TASS/. Maximum comfortable conditions should be created for startups, while creative people should be given ultimate freedom, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at the AI Journey conference on Saturday. 
Not only in the artificial intelligence field are the people, their talent and energy the main driving factor of success, but in all the fields of technological development, Putin said. We must ensure maximum freedom for creativity and for business initiative. We must create better conditions, a favorable and friendly environment for each who launches a startup, who takes risks, rolling out breakthrough products onto the market. 
According to the president, those people should be reassured that they are needed, that they will get support and that they will achieve success nowhere else but in Russia. 
Putin pointed out that he was aware similar conferences on artificial intelligence are not held in Moscow alone and thanked the organizers. He underlined that it is an absolutely right idea which is aimed at setting up a community of associates nationwide. 
Putin labeled the artificial intelligence systems as the climax of cutting-edge technology. He added that he had come to the AI conference to demonstrate the Russian government’s attitude to this issue. 
Those are breakthrough achievements of natural sciences and humanities, from maths and physics to psychology and linguistics, that accumulate artificial intelligence, the president stressed. It is difficult to find an example in history of this fusion of all sorts of knowledge and various subjects. 
According to Putin, it is a step into terra incognita, like space exploration and outstanding geographical discoveries. Putin underscored that a strong artificial intelligence could lay a foundation and become a breakthrough for mankind. 
These prospects is an attractive and daring challenge for courageous, talented and enthusiastic people, first of all, for the youth, for the young people who are not afraid of dreaming and working hard, the Russian leader said adding more and more such people are coming forward. 
According to Putin, hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren, students and engineers are keen on science and technological breakthroughs and they team up nationwide, looking for new solutions, inventing things and making discoveries. 
Russia capable of becoming a global leader in artificial intelligence - Putin 
The president thanked those who had contributed to the national strategy of artificial intelligence development 
MOSCOW, November 9. /TASS/. Russia should become one of the global leaders in the artificial intelligence sector, as the country’s growth in a wide range of sectors, including its defense, depends on that, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at the AI Journey conference in Moscow on Saturday. 
We should and, I am convinced, we are able to become one of the global leaders in the artificial intelligence field, as it is a question of our future, of Russia’s place in the world, Putin said, noting the advantage of Russian education in maths, physics and other sciences, as well as in the humanitarian field. 
Comfortable and safe cities, accessible and high-quality healthcare, education, cutting-edge logistics and a reliable transport system, space and ocean exploration, and finally the country’s defense capabilities… The development of all these sectors largely depends on our success in artificial intelligence both now and in the near future, the Russian leader stressed. 
According to Putin, the rejection of changes might cause depreciation of the country’s capacity. 
No matter how powerful it is today, tomorrow it could swiftly become outdated and could even equal zero, he added. 
The president thanked those who had contributed to the national strategy of artificial intelligence development. 
Now it is important to act as quickly as possible, joining efforts of the state, professional community and business, to translate plans into concrete solutions, innovations, and competitive and popular products, Putin said pointing out that federal agencies, state-owned corporations and companies would take on key responsibilities in this field. 
I believe their ability to provide and strengthen the country’s technological solvency is the most important criterion of their efficiency, the president said. 
A huge potential 
Putin said that application of artificial intelligence technology has a huge potential, noting that it will make it possible to get rid of inertia and clumsiness of the bureaucratic machine, to increase dramatically the transparency and efficiency of administrative procedures. 
According to the president, it is extremely important for the stability of society, since only then will people see what and how the authorities do and what they are guided by in decision-making. The AI's capabilities should be aimed at solving the problems of an individual in order to change the quality and image of the entire system of state governing. 
It is the most important condition so as to solve those major challenging tasks our country faces, concluded the head of state. 
Russian President also noted, that the artificial intelligence is playing an important role in the technology race among the countries but this invention will hardly be the last one in the history of mankind. 
Artificial intelligence is a resource of great force, the President said. The one having it in possession will forge into the lead and obtain tremendous competitive advantages, Putin noted. 
No wonder it is said that the technology race already started across the globe will be the most tough and uncompromising in the history of our civilization. Some people even say that the mankind is creating its last invention. I do not know whether it is so, Putin said with a touch of irony. Probably, the last one will generally never take place, although it appears there are reasons to think in such way also, he added. 
Bolivian defense minister steps down amid protests 
Earlier, the chief commander of the Bolivian armed forces announced that the military would join an effort on maintaining order in the streets upon a request from police 
MOSCOW, November 12. /TASS/. Bolivian Defense Minister Javier Zavaleta has announced his resignation amid the ongoing protests that have gripped the country, the South American country’s Defense Ministry wrote on its Twitter account. 
I’m stepping down as the defense minister in order to maintain unity in the Armed Forces, the minister stressed. 
Zavaleta stressed that he and Commander-in-Chief Evo Morales, who earlier resigned, have never ordered soldiers and sailors to take up arms against their people and would never do this. If now the military uses weapons against people, this will be the responsibility of those who have made this decision, he noted. 
Earlier, the chief commander of the Bolivian armed forces, Williams Kaliman, announced that the military would join an effort on maintaining order in the streets upon a request from police. 
The defense chief also called on Bolivian presidential hopeful Carlos Mesa and leader of protests against Morales’ re-election, Luis Fernando Camacho, to prevent conflict escalation. 
On November 10, Bolivian President Evo Morales announced his resignation, branding the recent developments as a coup d’etat. He stepped down following the demands of the country’s armed forces, opposition and trade unions. On the same day, Mexico’s authorities declared readiness to grant him political asylum. Earlier, a Mexican Air Force plane with Morales on board took off from Bolivia. 
Several other ministers have decided to quit. Despite Morales’ resignation, the situation in the country is not calm. Bolivia’s media outlets have reported about clashes between supporters of the opposition and Morales. 
Hainan sets record in generating atomic energy on the island 
HNP is providing the island with electricity 
HAIKOU, November 12. /TASS/. In the first 10 months of 2019 China's Hainan set an absolute record in nuclear power generation. As reported by the island's Department of Science and Technology, the numbers for the first time in history exceeded 8 billion kW in annual statements. 
“From the very beginning, when the local nuclear power plant was just put into operation, Hainan constantly demonstrated positive indicators in the field of atomic energy. The plant’s work contributes to the continuous environmentally friendly development of our province’s free trade zone and port,” said the representative of the HNP. 
According to the official, the island’s administration intends to develop environmentally friendly TPPs, which along with the atomic energy will play a key role in meeting the island’s need for.electricity. 
According to official statistics, the nuclear power generation in Hainan in 2016 amounted to 6 billion kWh, in 2017 this figure increased to 7.45 billion kW, and in 2018 — to 7.71 billion kW. Uninterrupted supply of electricity to the provincial population is carried out by the HNP, which manages the work of two nuclear power plants in Changjiang County in western Hainan. 
According to the China Atomic Energy Association, China has 47 reactors with a combined annual capacity of more than 48.750 MW. In January-September, they generated 253.53 billion kW - a little more than 4.7% of the total electricity generated in China over the said period. 
Prosecutors demand permits to 'jail' orcas, beluga whales, walruses be deemed illegal 
According to the court case register, the court received the claim on October 10, and a preliminary hearing started on November 11 that will last until November 18 
VLADIVOSTOK, November 12. /TASS/. The Amur Basin Nature Protection Prosecutor’s Office has filed a court claim to outlaw permits that have been issued by the Federal Agency for Fishery to capture beluga whales, orcas and walruses for the Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Center in Srednyaya Bay, the prosecutors told TASS on Tuesday. 
In May 2019, the Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk City Court recognized as illegal a number of decisions by the Federal Agency for Fishery that determined the permissible amount of orcas and beluga whales for capture in 2018, the distribution of quotas for their capture and the approval of fishery plans for educational purposes. In addition, Vladivostok’s Frunze District Court recognized that White Whale LLC, Afalina LLC, Sochi Dolphinarium LLC and the Oceanarium of the Far East, which captured the specified animals, violated fishing rules. 
The statement urging that the permits for capturing beluga whales, orcas and walruses by the local department of the Federal Agency for Fishery be deemed illegal is being studied by the Arbitration Court of the Khabarovsk Region, the Amur Basin prosecutors reported. According to the court case register, the court received the claim on October 10, and a preliminary hearing started on November 11 that will last until November 18. 
Whale of a saga 
Ninety beluga whales and 11 orcas caught for sale to China had been kept in the Primorsky Region’s Srednyaya Bay, since the summer of 2018, but later three beluga whales and one orca got lost. According to investigators, during the whales’ capture, violations were detected and a criminal case on the illegal seizure of bioresources was launched. 
In June, the gradual transportation of the marine mammals to the north of the Khabarovsk Region began for their release into the wild in groups. The last batch was released in the Primorsky Region on November 10. 
The Marine Mammal Rehabilitation Center in Srednyaya Bay reported in March that six walrus calves who are also kept there were captured and are being held there on legal grounds, and no investigation into them was carried out. 
Nearly 40,000 LPR residents received Russian citizenship, say Lugansk officials 
LPR Interior Minister Igor Kornet earlier reported that more than 36,000 LPR residents have already received Russian citizenship through the fast-track procedure 
LUGANSK, November 13. /TASS/. Almost 40,000 residents of the Lugansk People’s Republic (LPR) already received Russian passports, Deputy Head of the Migration Control Directorate of the LPR Interior Ministry Ruslan Naida said at the opening ceremony for a new migration service department in Lugansk on Wednesday. 
About 40,000 [LPR residents] already became proud owners of passports of the Russian Federation, he said. Naida specified that more than 60,000 residents of the republic applied for Russian citizenship through a fast-track procedure. 
LPR Interior Minister Igor Kornet earlier reported that more than 36,000 LPR residents have already received Russian citizenship through the fast-track procedure. 
Under a joint project with the Ministry of Communications and Mass Media of the republic, the LPR Interior Ministry launched a queue management system for registering passports of the republic and the Russian Federation. Registration in the system is accessible to all LPR residents. A call center for informing residents on the completion of their Russian passports is also operating. 
On April 24, 2019, Russian President Vladimir Putin signed an order enabling LPR and DPR residents to receive Russian citizenship in a simplified procedure. The first registration center for those wishing to get Russian citizenship opened in Lugansk on May 6. On June 14, the first group of LPR residents received Russian passports. 
Situation in Bolivia is fraught with complications — Russian Foreign Ministry 
Following a wave of protests, the newly-elected president, Evo Morales fled to Mexico while the second vice president of Bolivia’s Senate, Jeanine Anez, declared herself interim president 
A backer of former President Evo Morales scuffles with police in La Paz, Bolivia 
MOSCOW, November 14. /TASS/. The situation in Bolivia remains difficult and is fraught with complications, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at a briefing on Thursday. 
The situation remains difficult and is fraught with complications, she pointed out. We strongly condemn the use of violence to accomplish political tasks. It only leads to chaos, casualties, social and economic instability, Zakharova added. 
Political turbulence in Bolivia 
A presidential election was held in Bolivia on October 20. The country's Supreme Electoral Court declared that incumbent President Evo Morales had won the vote. His main rival, former President Carlos Mesa refused to recognize Morales' victory. After the results of the election had been announced, protests and strikes erupted across the South American country. Morales declared a state of emergency and accused the opposition of attempting to stage a coup. 
On November 10, Morales announced his resignation, branding the recent developments as a coup d’etat. He stepped down following the demands of the country’s armed forces, opposition and trade unions. 
On November 12, Morales arrived in Mexico, accepting an offer of political asylum. Meanwhile, the second vice president of Bolivia’s Senate, Jeanine Anez, declared herself interim president. The country’s Constitutional Court confirmed the legality of the transfer of power. 
CleanEquity® Monaco 2020 - Registration and Collaboration 
LONDON, Nov. 15, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- CleanEquity® was founded 13 years ago by His Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco & Mungo Park, Chairman of Innovator Capital. On 26th & 27th March 2020, it will continue its mission to enable and accelerate world relevant, best in class, sustainable technology companies. 
Innovator Capital's CleanEquity® unit will consider over 600 companies and technologies, 30 will be selected to present at the event. The audience will include financial, strategic, sovereign, corporate and family investors, established industry representatives, government officials, end users and international trade media. The chosen companies must meet high standards of management ability & integrity, unique technological differentiation protected by intellectual property and high, global revenue potential. 
Over the last 12 years 300+ different companies have presented their ideas and products. Those companies have since gone on to raise over two billion dollars. 
The invitation only conference, provides an intimate and collegiate setting for inventors and entrepreneurs to share their stories with delegates - key decision makers looking to assist them with reaching their commercial and strategic goals. CleanEquity's proven team works efficiently to facilitate introductions and meetings before, during and after the conference. 
We are delighted to be partnering with Covington & Burling LLP for their 11th year. Andrew Jack, Partner and co-chair of Covington & Burling's Energy Industry Group, commented: 
In the crowded calendar of sustainability conferences and investor forums, CleanEquity stands out as a signature event that convenes leading entrepreneurs, investors and advisors in a special setting to collaborate in efforts to commercialise transformational technologies and expand sustainability thought leadership. 
We at Covington are proud to support and assist both aspects of CleanEquity. Now in our eleventh year of sponsorship, we commit year-round participation of a dedicated group of our senior technology, policy and transactional lawyers to source and advise CleanEquity investors and presenting companies. At the conference we develop and deepen relationships with these investors and entrepreneurs through tailored workshops, plenary presentations and informal discussions of critical issues confronting sustainable and clean technology deployment and commercialisation. 
In a world that is increasingly complex and highly regulated, Covington & Burling have built a powerful firm-wide capability to help our clients navigate the intersection of law and policy, a capability, which is aligned perfectly with the dynamic development of the global sustainable technology sector and the focus of events such as CleanEquity Monaco. The firm's transactional and technology expertise coupled with our ability to advise on the toughest legal, policy and commercial challenges produces consistent results for our clients' businesses. 
For further information about attending CleanEquity® Monaco 2020, use the contact details below or visit the conference website: www.cleanequitymonaco.com 
Situations around Golan Heights and Crimea manifestly different — Pompeo 
US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said that as we evaluated each of those situations we felt that they were manifestly different as a matter of international law 
NEW YORK, November 16. /TASS/. The situations around the Golan Heights and Crimea are manifestly different, US Secretary of State Michael Pompeo said on Friday at the Rice University in Houston, Texas. 
I mean, the fact patterns are manifestly different, Pompeo said. There are many, many contested pieces of real estate around the world, and each one has its own manifestly different fact pattern. And what we have tried to do is say, hey, there are these - there is this set of international norms and understandings, there are fact patterns that lay against them, and where those norms line up, we should recognize those, he added. 
And so those two fact patterns — and I don’t want to spend a lot of time on it because it’s complicated, but suffice it to say as we evaluated each of those situations we felt that they were manifestly different as a matter of international law, and we attempted to recognize that distinction, Pompeo noted. 
Russian figure skater Trusova wins ISU Grand Prix Moscow stage to qualify for final 
Olympic silver medalist Evgenia Medvedeva was second and Maria Bell of the United States was third 
MOSCOW, November 16. /TASS/. Russian figure skater Alexandra Trusova has won the fifth stage of the ISU Grand Prix series held in Moscow. 
The 15-year-old finished with 234.47 points (74.21 for the short program and 160.26 for free skating). Olympic silver medalist Evgenia Medvedeva was second (with 225.76; 76.93+148.83) and Maria Bell of the United States was third (with 205.67; 67.11+138.56). 
The result at the Moscow event has qualified Trusova for the Grand Prix final in Italy’s Turin on December 5 through 8. Trusova is the first female figure skater to have landed quadruple lutz and quadruple toe loop jumps. She is second after Miki Ando of Japan to have landed a quad Salchow in competition. 
Earlier in the day, Russian ice dancers Victoria Sinitsina and Nikita Katsalapov were in first after the rhythm dance. Russians swept the top positions in men’s singles after Alexander Samarin was at the head, followed by Dmitry Aliev, 20, and their 19-year-old fellow Russian, Makar Ignatov to finish third. 
Russian Defense Ministry surprised by Turkey's statement about resuming Syria operation 
The Russian top brass believe such statements can only exacerbate tensions in the region 
MOSCOW, November 19. /TASS/. Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu’s statement about Russia’s failure to fulfill its promises and his threats to resume Ankara’s military operation in northern Syria were surprising, Russian Defense Ministry Spokesman Major General Igor Konashenkov told reporters on Tuesday. 
The Russian Defense Ministry was surprised to hear Turkish Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu’s statement about Russia’s alleged failure to fulfill its promises, as well as his threats about an operation in northern Syria, he said. The Turkish top diplomat’s statement calling for military activities may raise tensions in Syria’s north instead of easing them in accordance with a joint memorandum signed by the presidents of Russia and Turkey, Konashenkov added. 
According to Turkey’s Yeni Safak newspaper, Cavusoglu said on Monday that Ankara was ready to resume Operation Peace Spring in northern Syria in case the Kurdish-led People's Protection Units (YPG) failed to pull their fighters back from the Turkish-Syrian border. The Turkish foreign minister also accused Washington and Moscow of failing to take the necessary steps within the agreements they had reached with Ankara. 
On October 9, Turkey launched a military incursion into northern Syria, codenaming it Operation Peace Spring, with the Turkish Armed Forces and the Ankara-backed Free Syrian Army carrying it out. The Turkish government claimed that its goal was to clear the border area of what it calls ‘terrorists’ (Ankara’s broad label of the Kurdish forces) and establish a 30 km-long buffer zone in Syria’s north, where over 3 million Syrian refugees in Turkey would resettle. Damascus slammed the operation as aggression, and the international community condemned Ankara’s move. 
On October 17, the United States, represented by Vice President Mike Pence, reached a deal with Turkish President Recep Tayyip Erdogan to pause Operation Peace Spring. Turkey consented to a 120-hour ceasefire so that Kurdish units making up the coalition of the Syrian Democratic Forces could leave the areas of the border security zone that Ankara is attempting to create. 
On October 22, Presidents Vladimir Putin of Russia and Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey signed a memorandum on joint actions to resolve the situation in northeastern Syria. Russian military police units and Syrian troops were deployed to areas adjacent to the zone of Turkey’s Operation Peace Spring. Kurdish units were given 150 hours to pull out of the 30-km zone along the Syria-Turkey border. The withdrawal was completed by October 29 and on November 1, Russian military police and Turkish troops launched joint patrols in areas east of the Euphrates River. 
Israeli jets strike dozens of IRGC, Syrian army positions 
Earlier, the SANA news agency reported that Syrian air defense systems destroyed a few missiles on the outskirts of Damascus, citing a source in the Syrian Armed Forces 
TASS, November 20. The Israeli Air Force has attacked dozens of positions occupied by the Syrian army and Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) Quds Force in Syria in response to a missile barrage on Israeli territory that was carried out yesterday, the Israel Defense Forces (IDF) press service said on Wednesday. 
On Tuesday, the Israeli military announced that the Israeli air defense systems intercepted four rockets fired from Syria at the Golan Heights. We just carried out wide-scale strikes of Iranian Quds Force & Syrian Armed Forces targets in Syria in response to the rockets fired at Israel by an Iranian force in Syria last night [on November 19 — TASS], the press service said via Twitter. During our strike of Iranian & Syrian terror targets, a Syrian air defense missile was fired despite clear warnings to refrain from such fire. As a result, a number of Syrian aerial defense batteries were destroyed, the IDF added. 
Moreover, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said Wednesday that Israeli authorities carried out the strike on Syria to demonstrate that the country will respond to any hostile acts against it. I have made it clear that whoever hurts us — we will hurt him. This is what we did overnight vis-a-vis military targets of the Iranian Al Quds force and Syrian military targets in Syria after a barrage of rockets was launched at Israel, the Israeli prime minister said via Twitter adding, We will continue to vigorously maintain the security of Israel. 
Earlier, the SANA news agency reported that Syrian air defense systems destroyed a few missiles on the outskirts of Damascus, citing a source in the Syrian Armed Forces. According to the agency, Israeli fighter jets fired several rockets from the Golan Heights territory and the Lebanese town of Marjaayoun aiming at Damascus. 
The Golan Heights, an integral part of Syria starting from 1944, were seized by Israel in the six-day war in 1967. Fourteen years later, the Israeli parliament unilaterally proclaimed sovereignty over the Golan Heights. The UN Security Council on December 17, 1981 declared these actions null and void. 
Academy of Sciences: Arctic economy’s input in GDP may triple within a few years 
Academician Sergei Aldoshin said that the Russian Academy of Sciences has two councils looking into the Arctic’s problems - one of them in on the Arctic’s development and the other is on materials and nanomaterials 
MOSCOW, November 20. /TASS/. Development of the Arctic, and specifically extraction of minerals, will boost the Arctic economy’s input in the national GDP from 5.5 to 14%, Academician Sergei Aldoshin told an international forum on materials and nanomaterials. 
The estimations are that within a few years, the input in the Russian GDP from the Arctic economy will grow from about 5.5 to 14%. <…> Though the Arctic’s share in population is slightly over 2%, the region’s role is very high, he said. For example, most metals the economy needs - nickel, cobalt, copper, minerals, the platinum group - they all are produced in the Arctic. 
According to the expert, the Russian Academy of Sciences has two councils looking into the Arctic’s problems - one of them in on the Arctic’s development and the other is on materials and nanomaterials. Besides, the Academy has a program of scientific research in the Arctic, which covers different aspects - the environment, social and economic, political problems, oil and gas and mineral resources, as well as deep production and deep processing of hydrocarbons. 
Though the program’s funding was limited, scientists have done great work, at least they have a clear idea about what we know about the Arctic and what not, the academician said. The Academy’s opinion is to have two programs - one would be purely fundamental, it could address general aspects of the Arctic’s development, and the other would be applied, as the task is to adapt existing technologies and materials to the harsh Arctic conditions and also to make new materials and technologies for the Arctic.. 
Ukraine not interested in one-year transit contract with Gazprom — premier 
The current contracts on gas supplies to and transit via Ukraine expire on December 31 
KIEV, November 21. /TASS/. Ukraine does not view a short-term interim contract on the transit of Russian gas as an acceptable solution to the current standoff, Ukrainian Prime Minister Alexei Goncharuk said on Wednesday. 
Ukraine does not need an interim contract for one year, he told reporters. What Ukraine needs is a long-term contract [with Russian gas giant Gazprom], which would on one hand ensure the full-scale use of Ukraine’s gas transportation system and on the other - energy security of Ukraine and Europe. 
The head of the Ukrainian government refused to go into details about provisions of the possible future contract, but said that his country was looking for predictable, mutually beneficial, stable conditions of work with European partners according to European rules. 
The current contracts on gas supplies to and transit via Ukraine expire on December 31. By that date, Russia plans to commission two gas pipelines bypassing the Ukrainian territory - Nord Strem-2 and Turk Stream. Ukraine, in turn, has commitments to introduce the European energy laws by the yearend. 
Russia is ready to conclude a gas transit contract under the European rules in case Ukraine manages to complete all the relevant procedures. As a fallback option, the Russian side suggests the current contract be extended for 2020. Apart from that, Russia is ready to resume gas supplies to Ukraine, which stopped in 2015, at a price reduced by 25% 
The major stumbling block in those talks are mutual lawsuits between Naftogaz and Gazprom. Gazprom had suggested to waive all mutual claims as part of a package solution to continue gas transit through Ukraine after January 1, 2020. So far, at the expert level, the parties have not made progress on this issue. 
The European Commission (EC) has recommended direct purchases of the Russian gas totaling around 15 bln cubic meters per year to Ukraine to reduce expensive reverse supplies, a source in the EU’s institutions close to trilateral gas talks told TASS on Wednesday. Naftogaz later rejected this information. According to the Ukrainian company, the European Commission recommended that Gazprom conclude a long-term contract with a significant amount according to European rules and with the new Ukrainian GTS operator, because it meets the commercial interests of all parties and ensures the energy security of Europe. 
On Wednesday, a technical trilateral meeting between Russia, the EU and Ukraine on gas was held in a teleconference format. 
US recognition of Jewish settlements to aggravate regional tensions — Russian diplomat 
On November 18, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that Washington no longer believed that Israeli settlements in the West Bank contravened international law 
UNITED NATIONS, November 21. /TASS/. The US recognition of Israeli settlements on the West Bank of the Jordan River will aggravate the already tense situation in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict zone, Russia's first deputy permanent representative to the UN Dmitry Polyansky told the UN Security Council on Wednesday. 
Two days ago, the United States made a yet another step to undermine the entire complex of the previously coordinated agreements, he said. It is evident to us that this move would aggravate the already tense situation in the Israeli-Palestinian settlement. 
It was declared that the US government no longer views the Israeli construction of settlements on the West Bank of the Jordan river as a violation of the international law, the diplomat said. At the same time, it was stressed that this move comes as a recognition of ‘reality on the ground.’ This kind of 'reality' is inadmissible and illegal for us. 
UN Special Coordinator for the Middle East Peace Process Nickolay Mladenov said during the UN Security Council session that he regretted the US decision. 
According to TASS, states members of the UN Security Council were unable to adopt a joint statement for the media to condemn the Israeli settlement activity due to objections from the US. However, during and after the session, the remaining 14 Security Council member states called for an end to those unlawful activities on the Palestinian territory. 
On November 18, US Secretary of State Mike Pompeo said that Washington no longer believed that Israeli settlements in the West Bank contravened international law. Israel welcomed the decision, but Palestine said the US administration was not authorized to repeal international resolutions regarding Jewish settlements. 
In December 2016, tThe United Nations Security Council passed Resolution 2334 demanding Israel stop its settlement activities on the occupied Palestinian territories. Israel refused to implement provisions of this document. 
Shlyakhtin to leave post of ARAF head for duration of investigation 
Dmitry Shlyakhtin confirmed that he will temporarily leave the post for the time of provisional suspension 
MOSCOW, November 21. /TASS/. Dmitry Shlyakhtin has told TASS that he will temporarily leave the post of the head of the All-Russia Athletics Federation (ARAF) for the duration of the investigation by the Athletics Integrity Unit (AIU). 
On Thursday, the AIU provisionally suspended Shlyakhtin and four other representatives of the ARAF. They were accused of violating anti-doping rules by forging documents which high jumper Danil Lysenko presented to explain why he missed a doping test. 
It is important to understand the circumstances of these accusations, and it will be possible only after consulting lawyers. Resignation? Let's wait for the presidium session which will be held in the nearest future, and everything will be sorted out there, Shlyahtin said. Of course, I will temporarily leave the post for the time of provisional suspension, and I will defend my nome in court as well, he added. 
Washington not coercing Minsk to limit cooperation with Moscow, says diplomat 
Belarusian Deputy Foreign Minister Oleg Kravchenko said that there are no calls or expectations from the US side regarding our [Belarusian-Russian] cooperation 
WASHINGTON, November 22. /TASS/. The United States does not try to make Belarus limit its cooperation with Russia, Belarusian Deputy Foreign Minister Oleg Kravchenko told TASS on Thursday during his visit to Washington. 
When asked whether Washington tries to limit cooperation between Minsk and Moscow in exchange for normalization of Belarusian-US relations, Kravchenko said: Absolutely not. This was never the case — not before, not now. Truly, this is just not the case. I never encountered such a thing. 
He reminded that former US National Security Advisor John Bolton talked about Belarusian-Russian cooperation in the context of bilateral relations between Minsk and Washington. John Bolton talked about this when he visited Minsk. He told the media about this, Kravchenko said. At the conference today, [US Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for European and Eurasian Affairs] George Kent publicly spoke about this as well, he added. 
The issues of Belarus' relations with Russia is a internal matter of Belarus, Kravchenko said. Judging from what I see in our discussions with Americans, I can confirm that there are no calls or expectations from the US side regarding our [Belarusian-Russian] cooperation, he added. 
They [US officials] say that they can accept any decision, that this decision should be democratic, and that it should the decision of Belarus. They say that they understand the historical and objective nature of cooperation between Belarus and Russia, of those formats of cooperation that exist, he continued. To be honest, I never heard US officials condemning our cooperation. That's why I wouldn't say that our cooperation with Russia represents an element in our talks with the US, he noted. 
Russia plans new trials of Tsirkon hypersonic missile before yearend — source 
The tests will take place at a naval range of the Northern Fleet, the source specified 
MOSCOW, November 22. /TASS/. New tests of the latest Tsirkon hypersonic missile will take place at a naval range of the Northern Fleet before the end of the year, a source in defense circles of Russia’s North-Western Federal District told TASS on Friday. 
A Tsirkon missile is expected to be launched from the White Sea before the end of the year. The specific date will be set as soon as the technical equipment is ready, the source said. 
Specialists are now making a special stand based on a pontoon, from which the latest missile will be test-fired, the source added. 
Tsirkon hypersonic missile 
In his State-of-the-Nation Address to the Federal Assembly on February 20, Russian President Vladimir Putin informed that the work on the Tsirkon hypersonic missile was proceeding as scheduled. As the Russian leader stated, the Tsirkon is capable of developing a speed of Mach 9 and its striking range capability can exceed 1,000 km. The Russian leader noted that the Tsirkon could strike both naval and ground targets. Experts say the Tsirkon hypersonic missile cannot be intercepted by any existing air defense capabilities. 
A source in the defense industry told TASS in late 2018 that more than ten Tsirkon launches had been carried out against naval targets to ranges of several hundred kilometers since the start of the missile’s trials. According to media reports, the missile firings from a sea platform were conducted in 2016, 2017 and 2018. 
Russian warships and submarines currently armed with Kalibr or Oniks cruise missiles are expected to carry Tsirkon hypersonic weapons. Russian Deputy Defense Minister Alexei Krivoruchko said on November 8 there were plans to deploy Tsirkon missiles on the frigate Marshal Shaposhnikov currently undergoing modernization and on the Project 949A multi-purpose nuclear-powered submarine Irkutsk. Before that, Russian President Putin revealed that the corvette Gremyashchiy might be armed with Tsirkon hypersonic missiles. 
Volkswagen to recall more than 9,000 Audi Q5 crossovers in Russia 
MOSCOW, November 22. /TASS/. OOO Volkswagen Group Rus, a Russian dealer of Audi, will recall 9,469 Audi Q5 model crossovers, sold in Russia from 2017 to the present, the Federal Agency for Technical Regulation and Metrology (Rosstandart) reports on Friday. 
The reason for the recall of vehicles is that due to the torsional displacement, the protrusion of the rear wheel arch lining can come off the mounts. As a result, the fastening of lining of the wheel arch can weaken and in some cases, the lining can completely separate, the statement says. 
On the vehicles that are subject to recall, it is necessary to fix the protrusion of the wheel arch lining with two modified holding locks, according to the watchdog. 
All repair work will be carried out free of charge for vehicle owners, the regulator says 
In August, Volkswagen Group Rus already recalled in Russia 6,682 Audi Q5 model crossovers because of certain potential malfunctions in vehicles. The recalling campaign covered 6,679 cars sold in 2017-2019. 
Putin calls United Russia a party that is not afraid of difficult decisions 
Russian President noted, that the status of the United Russia party is to serve the people for the sake of the country’s future rather than to rule 
MOSCOW, November 23. /TASS/. The United Russia party has never been afraid of assuming responsibility and making difficult decisions necessary for the country, Russian President Vladimir Putin said at the party’s 19th congress on Saturday. 
The United Russia as the country’s largest and leading political party - and it has acquired this status because it has always prioritized the protection of citizens’ interests, the interests of our Motherland - has never been afraid of responsibility at the most complex twists of history, has always assumed and shouldered this responsibility and has not been afraid of difficult decisions that do not yield situational popularity and do not give extra points at elections, the Russian president said. 
Such audacity is needed to ensure the country’s security, ensure the stable life of people for a long term, Putin said. 
The Russian leader thanked the United Russia members for their joint work, substantive and active support. The party has numerously displayed its willpower and proven its rightness, offered a unifying agenda based on the human’s freedom and well-being, patriotism, our traditional values, a strong civil society and a strong state, Putin stressed. 
National projects 
He added, that the work on implementing national projects is the most important task for the United Russia party. 
First of all, coherent and responsible work is needed for implementing the priorities of Russia’s development. Now this is the most important task for each of you, for your regional teams, for all who support the party, the Russian president said, addressing the congress delegates. 
I request you to concentrate on achieving tangible results under all national projects so that people can feel positive changes in their life and, importantly, can themselves participate in this joint work and see that all our joint efforts are aimed at positive and qualitative changes in the life of people, Putin stressed. 
The main thing in the party’s work is to be together with people and know in detail their needs and problems and respond to them immediately, the Russian leader stressed. 
It is only in the daily mode of communication with people that you will be able to confirm and strengthen your competence and will prove your leadership by your deeds, attention and the care about citizens, Putin said. 
Speaking about the national projects, Putin stressed that people should themselves participate in this joint work to see that such efforts are aimed at positive and qualitative changes. 
Precisely the results achieved for the sake of people rather than empty words and promises unbacked by anything should become the party’s main argument in the upcoming electoral campaigns at all the levels, from municipalities to the State Duma, the Russian leader said. 
The regional problems 
President noted, that members of the United Russia party should put the heat on officials to secure decisions necessary for citizens. 
You see and you know yourselves that now a dilapidated hospital, then something else is shown [in media footage]. Locally, you must see that, if officials fail to do so. You should keep constant pressure on them to secure decisions, the Russian leader said. 
The party should be the leader in everything, Putin stressed. 
You should yourselves find and raise acute issues, without waiting for my next annual [Q&A] Direct Line. You should seek to solve such issues on your own, striving for justice, the Russian president said. 
He added, that the status of the United Russia party is to serve the people for the sake of the country’s future rather than to rule. 
The status of the ruling party, the party of power means to hear and serve the people rather than to rule. The essence of this service relates to the future of our citizens, our children who have already been borne and will be borne in Russian families, the Russian leader said. 
Putin congratulates Kusturica on his 65th birthday 
The Russian president wished the Serbian filmmaker good health, creative inspiration and success 
MOSCOW, November 24. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin has congratulated Serbian filmmaker Emir Kusturica on his 65th birthday, the Kremlin website said citing the telegram. 
You have brightly expressed yourself in cinema, music and art. You have earned the worldwide fame. Your projects have always been original and unique and they are distinguished as the works of a true master and creator, the telegram reads. 
Putin also expressed respect for the filmmaker’s public activity, emphasizing Kusturica’s role in popularizing the Russian culture, cultivating humanitarian cooperation and promoting the truth about history. 
The Russian president wished the Serbian filmmaker good health, creative inspiration and success. 
Emir Kusturica was born on November 24, 1954 in Sarajevo, the capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina (formerly part of Yugoslavia). As an actor, author or co-author of scenarios and a filmmaker, Kusturica is known for more than 30 movies. He won awards of Europe’s best film festivals, including the Golden Palm at the Cannes film festival. Kusturica is also the leader of The No Smoking Orchestra rock band. Every year, he organizes Russian music festival in Serbia, entitled Kustendorf Classic, which is attended by famous musicians. 
Russian Baltic Fleet ships enter Red Sea en route to Gulf of Aden for anti-piracy mission 
The Baltic Fleet’s naval group will arrive at the Indian port of Marmagao on December 10 to take part in the Indra-2019 Russian-Indian drills 
KALININGRAD, November 27. /TASS/. A group of the Baltic Fleet’s warships led by the guard ship Yaroslav Mudry has passed through the Suez Canal and entered the Red Sea in its long-distance deployment, the Fleet’s press office reported on Wednesday. 
The guard ship Yaroslav Mudry is being accompanied by the sea tug Viktor Konetsky and the tanker Yelnya. 
The ships are sailing through the Red Sea into the designated area of the Gulf of Aden where they will perform assigned missions, including the task to keep their anti-piracy watch, the press office said in a statement. 
Earlier, the ships that stayed within the Russian Navy’s permanent Mediterranean task force made business calls at the ports of Tartus, Piraeus and Limassol where the crews had a rest and replenished shipboard supplies. Besides, the crews held a planned inspection of the ships’ assemblies and mechanisms during their anchorage at the Mediterranean ports. 
The warships embarked on their long-distance deployment from the Baltic Fleet’s main naval base of Baltiysk in the westernmost Kaliningrad Region on October 1 and headed for the Indian Ocean to take part for the first time in the naval component of the Indra-2019 Russian-Indian drills that will run on December 10-19. The warships are on their long-distance deployment in compliance with the plan of the Russian Defense Ministry’s international activity this year. 
The Baltic Fleet’s naval group will arrive at the Indian port of Marmagao on December 10. The Indra-2019 drills will run at land and naval training ranges and at a military aerodrome of the Indian Armed Forces, involving about 300 troops from Russia’s Eastern Military District. The drills are divided into two phases. The first coastal stage will take place at the port of Marmagao on December 10-15. The naval phase of the joint drills will run on December 16-19 in the Indian Ocean. 
Russia hopes relations with US will improve if Sullivan is appointed ambassador 
On Nove 20, the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations approved John Sullivan as the country's ambassador to Russia, his candidacy is now to be approved by the full Senate 
BEIJING, November 27. /TASS/. Russia keeps hoping that its relations with the United States will improve, if Deputy Secretary of State John Sullivan is appointed US Ambassador to Russia, Russian Deputy Foreign Minister Sergei Ryabkov said on Wednesday following Russian-Chinese strategic stability consultations. 
I hope that, if that appointment takes place <…>, he [Sullivan] will work to mend ties, which are in a deplorable state. What we hear from him enables us to maintain hope in this regard, although the overall situation in Washington is not conducive to normal diplomatic communication, the way it has been for decades, he said. 
We understand all that as well and believe that a person of his experience, his level and his status is fully aware of everything related to the current crisis state of Russian-American relations, Ryabkov stressed. 
On October 17, US President Donald Trump nominated Sullivan to be US Ambassador to Russia. On November 20, the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations approved Sullivan as the country's ambassador to Russia. His candidacy is now to be approved by the full Senate. 
Russia calls on US to support national dialogue process in Venezuela — Foreign Ministry 
Moscow notes some stabilization of situation in Bolivia, the diplomat revealed 
MOSCOW, November 28. /TASS/. The United States should support the emerging process of national dialogue in Venezuela, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said at a briefing on Thursday. 
She pointed out that the Venezuelan people had begun to take steps to resolve issues based on the principles of inclusiveness and consent. We would like to call on our colleagues in the US administration to be realistic in assessing the situation, Zakharova said. There is a need to assist efforts to expand the national dialogue, boosting the emerging process of national reconciliation guided by the Venezuelan people, she added. 
In May, Oslo hosted several rounds of indirect talks between the Venezuelan government and the opposition, brokered by Norway. The latest round of consultations took place in Barbados in July. 
On September 15, the Venezuelan government and some opposition members agreed to establish a national council for dialogue for the parties to hold talks on a wide range of issues. Venezuelan President Nicolas Maduro announced later that the country’s authorities were ready to resume the Norway-brokered talks any time. 
Situation in Bolivia 
The situation in Bolivia has stabilized in the last few days, the ultimate resolution of the national political crisis depends on whether the interim authorities can abandon the strategy of aggressive statements, the Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman told the briefing. 
We are registering certain stabilization of situation in this country [Bolivia] in the last few days. These developments came through the offices of Personal Envoy of the UN Secretary-General [for Bolivia Jean Arnault], she noted. 
The diplomat added that Bolivia now has a chance to resolve the political crisis and return to at least relative stability. To what extent this opportunity will be seized depends primarily on whether interim authorities and politicians, including those who have already announced their intention to run for presidency, can abandon aggressive rhetoric aimed at opponents and representatives of indigenous people as well as low income earners, Zakharova underlined. 
Bolivia's presidential election was held on October 20. The country's Supreme Electoral Court declared that incumbent President Evo Morales won the first round. His main rival, former President Carlos Mesa, refused to recognize Morales' victory. After the results of the election were announced, protests and strikes erupted across the South American country. Morales declared a state of emergency in Bolivia. On November 10, Bolivian President Evo Morales announced his resignation, branding the developments as a coup d’etat. He stepped down following the demands of the country’s armed forces, opposition and trade unions. Former Vice President of Bolivia Alvaro Garcia Linera also slammed the developments as a coup as well as the speakers of both parliament chambers who, in accordance with the constitution, were next in line of succession to assume the interim presidency. In that situation, senator and second Vice-Speaker of the Senate of Bolivia Jeanine Anez who represents opposition declared that she had assumed the presidency until a new election is held and appointed a new cabinet of ministers. 
On November 23, both Bolivian parliament chambers approved the bill drafted by the interim government to hold a new election. Anez underlined that it was hard to achieve consensus to unanimously adopt the legislation. 
Armenia grateful for Russia’s assistance in resolving Nagorno-Karabakh issue, PM says 
BISHKEK, November 28. /TASS/. Yerevan appreciates Russia’s mediation efforts to resolve the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict between Armenia and Azerbaijan, Armenian Prime Minister Nikol Pashinyan said at a session of the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) Collective Security Council in Bishkek on Thursday. 
The CSTO has the necessary tools to prevent tensions in Nagorno-Karabakh from escalating. We do seek peace and are ready to build constructive dialogue in order to find a peaceful solution. We will continue talks within the OSCE Minsk Group, which is the only platform recognized by the international community. In this regard, we are particularly grateful to Russia as a Minsk Group co-chair, Pashinyan said, as cited by his press service. 
Nagorno-Karabakh conflict 
The highland region of Nagorno-Karabakh (or Mountainous Karabakh) is a mostly Armenian-populated enclave inside Azerbaijan’s territory. It is a self-proclaimed independent republic, not recognized by any of the United Nations member states. 
In 1988, hostilities broke out there between the forces reporting to the Baku government and Armenian residents. In 1994, a ceasefire was reached but relations between Azerbaijan and Armenia has remained strained ever since 
Azerbaijan insists that its territorial integrity be restored and refugees return to Nagorno-Karabakh, which will create conditions for talks on the region’s status. Baku is ready to grant autonomy to the region but is unwilling to hold direct talks with Nagorno-Karabakh. At the same time, Armenia strongly opposes the region’s reunification with Azerbaijan and says that its right to self-determination should be considered. 
Russia, France and the United States co-chair the OSCE Minsk Group, which seeks to broker an end to the conflict. The Group also includes Azerbaijan, Armenia, as well as Belarus, Germany, Italy, Portugal, the Netherlands, Sweden, Finland and Turkey. 
Representatives from 17 countries speak highly of Risen Energy's contribution 
NINGBO, China, Nov. 29, 2019 /PRNewswire/ -- A delegation of over 40 representatives from industrial, commercial and trade organizations from 17 countries paid a visit to Chinese solar panel maker Risen Energy Co., Ltd on November. These countries border the Chinese government's Belt and Road Initiative's route and representatives from Slovakia, Brunei and Panama were some of those present. After touring Risen Energy's production facilities, learning about its development and market portfolio and communicating with its executives, the representatives were left thoroughly impressed and praised Risen Energy's contribution to the Belt and Road Initiative. 
Since 2013, when the Belt and Road Initiative was first launched by the Chinese government, Risen Energy has taken the initiative into account when planning the expansion of its global business footprint. In addition to consolidating its existing partnerships with power plants abroad, the company has established a presence in markets in countries targeted by the initiative, including Ukraine, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Vietnam. Risen Energy continues to increase investment in photovoltaic power plants worldwide and, by doing so, facilitates a global energy transformation. 
Risen Energy is the first Chinese solar panel maker to put money into the construction of photovoltaic power stations in Kazakhstan and has continued to invest in facilities there. The company has already signed mandate letters with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) for financing of its 63MW solar project and 40MW solar project, both in Kazakhstan. This past July, Risen Energy started construction of its second EPC project in the country's Chulakkurgan rural district. 
Despite an increasingly fragmented international PV market, Risen Energy has been expanding its global business footprint and achieved significant results in several emerging markets including Ukraine, Vietnam and Poland. After signing a PV module supply contract with Ukraine's largest private energy provider, Donbas Fuel and Energy Company (DTEK) in early 2019, the company was awarded an order for 148MW half-cut cell high efficiency monocrystalline modules. Due to this, Risen Energy will supply more than 1GW of modules to Ukraine by the end of 2019. Moreover, the company's market share in Vietnam now exceeds 30%, thanks to the implementation of a localization strategy. 
Risen Energy president Xie Jian said, We will continue to expand into more emerging markets along the Belt and Road route, enhance our presence in emerging markets that show development potential, deepen our close cooperation with our partners, and, by doing so, boost the development of sustainable and renewable industries in countries along the route. 
US sending military aid to Ukraine strains relations with Russia - expert 
Communications manager of Defense Priorities Michael Hall said that it would be wise for Washington to cooperate more with Moscow, rather than antagonize it 
NEW YORK, November 30. /TASS/. Sending military aid to Ukraine creates risks for the US itself and strains relations with Russia, Michael Hall, communications manager of Defense Priorities, said in his article published at the Daily Caller website. 
Taking risks, like siding with Ukraine in a war with Russia, is a risk without clear benefit to Americans. Any clear-eyed assessment of Russia’s position should conclude that Ukraine - if by proximity alone - is much more vital to Russia’s security than it is to America’s, he says. 
While assessing Ukraine as a mediocre military power, Halls notes that no amount of aid from the U.S. is going to change that and allow Ukraine to miraculously triumph over Russia. 
Instead, the aid unnaturally binds the U.S. to Ukraine’s interests - that’s why Kiev is so intent on receiving U.S. Javelin missiles, even though it’s an exporter of anti-tank munitions, the expert says. 
One could hardly blame Ukraine for wanting to make the U.S. ever more responsible for its security, but what’s in it for America? And because of Russia’s interests in the region, a situation like this conjures up flashbacks of the Cold War, when two nuclear-armed countries were on the brink of doing something no sane person is advocating for, he stresses. 
According to the expert, at a time when critical restraining treaties like New START are expiring, it would be wise for Washington to cooperate more with Moscow, rather than antagonize it. 
In early March of 2018, the Pentagon announced that Ukraine would receive Javelin systems for a total of $47 million, including 37 launchers and 210 anti-tank guided missiles for them. In late April of 2018, it became known that Ukraine had received these weapons. 
In early October of this year, the Defense Security Cooperation Agency (DSCA), which is responsible for the supply of military equipment and weapons abroad under intergovernmental contracts, announced plans to sell Ukraine 150 rockets for Javelin anti-tank missile systems in the amount of $39.2 mln. According to the US Department of Defense, since 2014, the military assistance provided by Washington to Kiev amounted to $1.5 billion. 
Court’s decision in Deripaska’s lawsuit against Western media comes into effect 
The claimant's lawyer informed earlier that the court had sent the decision and all the necessary documents translated into English to the respondents 
KRASNODAR, December 2. /TASS/. The Arbitration Court of Russia’s Krasnodar Region has not received any appeals from the Western media against its decision that their publications about businessman Oleg Deripaska do not correspond with reality, an official with the court told TASS on Monday. 
Taking into consideration the absence of appeals, the court’s decision has come into effect, Deripaska’s lawyer Alexei Melnikov told TASS. 
On October 25, the Arbitration Court of Russia’s Krasnodar Region upheld the lawsuit businessman Oleg Deripaska filed against British newspapers The Telegraph and The Times and US weekly The Nation in order to protect his business reputation. 
The court states that the publications about the businessman in those newspapers do not correspond to reality. It obliged the media to delete these articles from their websites, to issue a correction and to compensate the payment of state fees worth 54,000 rubles ($839) to Deripaska. 
Melnikov informed earlier that the court had sent the decision and all the necessary documents translated into English to the respondents. 
The court has not received any petitions of appeal from the plaintiffs, a court representative told TASS. 
About lawsuit 
On September 13, Deripaska filed a lawsuit in the Arbitration Court of the Krasnodar Region against The Nation, The Telegraph, and The Times newspapers. He claims that old articles by these publications prompted the US Treasury to impose personal sanctions against him in 2018. 
Earlier, the businessman’s representative said that in March 2019, Oleg Deripaska had filed a lawsuit against the US Treasury Department, in which he disputes the personal sanctions imposed on him. He said that in order to justify the sanctions, the US Treasury Department referred only to three newspaper articles (by The Nation, The Telegraph and The Times) published in foreign media more than 10 years ago. According to the businessman, under the guise of proved facts, those articles presented ungrounded accusations against Deripaska made by his competitors, as well as rumors and speculations. These charges have never been confirmed in court and bear no relation to reality, the businessman’s representative said. 
In March 2019, Deripaska filed a lawsuit against the US Treasury in the federal court of Washington. He called sanctions introduced against him in April 2018 as unfair and illegal and noted that his wealth contracted by more than $7.5 bln due to sanctions in the complaint. 
The US Treasury Department introduced sanctions against Oleg Deripaska and companies controlled by him on April 6, 2018. Sanctions covered Rusal, Basic Element, En+, Russian Machines, EuroSibEnergo, GAZ Group, B-Finance and Kuban agricultural holding. 
On January 27, Washington time (January 28 Moscow time), the US Department of Treasury announced the removal of sanctions against Rusal, En+ and EuroSibEnergo. However, it cost Deripaska control in his enterprises: in particular, his share in the En+ holding decreased from 70% to 44.95%, while in Rusal he directly owns only 0.01% of shares and is not entitled to receive dividends. The restrictions against the co-owner of those companies, Oleg Deripaska, remain in force. 
Russian tennis chief Tarpishchev lauds results of national players in outgoing year 
Russia’s male tennis players won five ATP tournaments this season with four of them clinched by Daniil Medvedev and one by Andrey Rublev 
President of the Russian Tennis Federation Shamil Tarpishchev 
MOSCOW, December 2. /TASS, Andrey Kartashov/. Shamil Tarpishchev, the president of the Russian Tennis Federation (RTF), said on Monday that the outgoing year of 2019 was ‘simply excellent’ for national tennis players. 
This season turned out to be good on the whole and simply excellent for boys, Tarpishchev told TASS adding that it can be attributed to good performances in the Davis Cup and individual performance successes of the national team’s players. 
The season can be ranked as average for the girls, but the perspective is obvious, Tarpishchev added. 
Russia’s male tennis players won five ATP (the Association of Tennis Professionals) tournaments this season with four of them clinched by Daniil Medvedev and one by Andrey Rublev. The ATP Rankings currently lists Medvedev as the world’s No. 5, while Russia’s Karen Khachanov and Andrey Rublev are ranked 17th and 23rd respectively. 
During the 2019 Davis Cup Finals last month, the Russian national team reached the semifinals round. The national team of tennis players defeated Croatia and later lost to Spain during the group stage of the tournament, but then went on to defeat the Serbian squad in the quarterfinals stage and lost to the team from Canada in the semifinals. 
The 2019 Davis Cup Finals tournament was hosted by Spain’s Madrid between November 18 and 24. 
The Davis Cup is a major international sporting event among national men’s tennis teams that has been held annually since 1900. The competitions currently run throughout the year and the Davis Cup matches are played between national teams, divided into various groups. 
The Russian national tennis team came on top of the prestigious Davis Cup competitions twice — in 2002 and 2006. 
NATO’s outdated stereotypes of thinking cannot be instrument for cooperation — Putin 
The Russian president stressed that Russia had repeatedly met NATO halfway, trying to suggest a constructive agenda, and even holding joint events 
SOCHI, December 3./TASS/. NATO’s obsolete stereotypes of thinking cannot be an instrument for cooperation in the rapidly changing world, Russian President Vladimir Putin told a session on the government defense order for the Russian Navy on Tuesday. 
Bloc stereotypes of thinking of the past years cannot be a good instrument for looking for and taking efficient decisions given the sweeping changes to the modern world, the Russian leader stressed. 
However, we have repeatedly expressed readiness for cooperation with NATO, showed readiness to jointly counter real threats, including, as we know, international terrorism, local armed conflicts and the danger of an uncontrolled proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, Putin added. 
Putin highlighted that Russia had repeatedly met NATO halfway, trying to suggest a constructive agenda, and even holding joint events. However, after 2008, our cooperation was practically scaled down, since the Alliance was acting improperly towards Russia, if not to say rudely, without any regard to the interests of the Russian Federation, Putin said, adding that he was referring to partnership cooperation suggested by Russia. 
The president informed that he was bringing the attention of the session to NATO-related issues, with a glance to an anniversary NATO summit taking place in London on December 3-4. He reiterated that NATO was established on April 4, 1949, as the main component of the then unfolding Cold War, and to counter the Soviet Union. 
Now, as we know, the Soviet Union does not exist any longer. Neither does the Warsaw Treaty Organization, a military pact created in response to the establishment of NATO. Meanwhile, NATO not only exists, but is developing, the Russian leader stressed. He also noted that NATO initially brought together 12 states, while now their number has grown to 29. 
Putin also underscored that the aggregate expenditures of the NATO member countries account for more than 70% of global military spending. However, the Russian leader expressed hope that the interests of common security and a stable and peaceful future of the globe will prevail. 
Today we must proceed from the fact that the expansion of NATO and the development of its military infrastructure close to the Russian borders is one of potential threats to the security of our country, Putin emphasized. 
Russian traffic police shoot intoxicated armed attacker who opened fire on officer 
Given the life-threatening situation, the second police officer was forced to use his service pistol, according to the press service 
ROSTOV-ON-DON, December 4. /TASS/. An officer from the State Traffic Safety Inspectorate (STSI) shot a local resident who had pulled out a gun and fired on police officers, according to the press service of the Main Directorate for the Rostov Region of the Russian Interior Ministry. 
While performing their duties, traffic inspectors stopped a VAZ-21053 automobile for violating road regulations. According to preliminary information, as the officers were writing up the traffic ticket, an unknown citizen who was clearly intoxicated approached the police officers and aggressively demanded that the traffic offenders be released. After the police officers had demanded that he present identification according to official procedure, the unidentified individual pulled out an object resembling a Makarov pistol of his jacket, put some rounds in, and pointed it at a patrolman who was in his police car and opened fire, the press service reported. 
Given the life-threatening situation, the second police officer was forced to use his service pistol, and fired a warning shot into the air, but the attacker did not stop. The traffic police officer fired several shots at him, and the man succumbed to injuries on the spot, the press service noted. 
It was found that the deceased — a 24-year-old local resident, had no prior criminal record. An official review has been authorized, and the validity of using a service pistol by the police officers is being determined, the press service added. 
The press service informed TASS that the incident occurred in the small hours of Wednesday morning. A criminal case was launched under the section of the threat of using violence against a traffic police officer (Part 1 Section 318 of the Russian Criminal Code), the regional directorate of the Russian Investigative Committee told journalists, noting that investigators will also check the validity of the policeman’s use of the service gun. It was specified that the incident occurred in Krasny Sulin. 
German prosecution suspects Russian link to Berlin killing 
According to the prosecutors, there are no facts indicating that the killing was committed by a criminal with no ties to a government 
BERLIN, December 4. /TASS/. Germany’s Federal Prosecution Office has launched an investigation into a Georgian national’s killing that took place in Berlin in early August, the office said in a statement on Wednesday. 
There is enough reason to believe that the killing of Tornike K. was ordered by either Russian state bodies or the authorities of the Chechen Republic, which is part of the Russian Federation, the statement reads. 
According to the prosecution, there are no facts indicating that the killing was committed by a criminal with no ties to a government. 
Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov earlier dismissed allegations about Russia’s involvement in the murder as groundless. There are no serious suspicions, and there cannot be. What does it have to do with the Russian authorities? These allegations are completely groundless, he told reporters, commenting on German media reports claiming that the killer had ties to the Russian authorities. 
A 40-year-old Georgian national was killed in the German capital on August 23. The Berlin prosecution said later that same day that a 49-year-old Russian suspect had been detained. 
Russia’s Lavrov to hold talks with PM Conte during his visit to Italy — ambassador 
Lavrov will make a working visit to Italy on December 5-7 
ROME, December 4. /TASS/. When visiting Italy, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov will hold a meeting with Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, Russia’s Ambassador in Rome Sergei Razov said on Wednesday. 
We are waiting for Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov to arrive tomorrow. He will come [to Rome] to deliver a speech at an international conference and will also hold some bilateral meetings, including with Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio and Prime Minister Giuseppe Conte, Razov said at an event devoted to the presentation of the Russian-Italian forum-dialogue between civic societies and the opening of the festival ‘Russia-Italy: Through centuries.’ 
Earlier, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that Lavrov would make a working visit to Italy on December 5-7 to attend the fifth edition of the Mediterranean Dialogues (MED) conference in Rome. 
Apart from that, the Russian foreign minister will hold talks with his Italian counterpart Luigi Di Maio. According to Zakharova, it will be their first meeting in person after the current Italian government was formed this September. She says that it is expected that considerable attention will be drawn to international issues, including regional crises in Syria, Libya, Ukraine and the situation in Latin America.. 
Belarus will never join another state, president says 
Alexander Lukashenko noted that he did not want to undermine the achievements that Belarus had gained as an independent country 
MINSK, December 5. /TASS/. Belarus will never join another state, including Russia, Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko said at a meeting with the country’s lawmakers on Thursday. 
We have never planned to join another state, including Russia, which is our fraternal nation, Lukashenko pointed out, as cited by the BelTA news agency. 
He noted that he did not want to undermine the achievements that Belarus had gained as an independent country. You should remember one thing: I am not a youngster who has served three to five years as president. I don’t want to undermine what we have done together, creating an independent state, just to put it all in a box and throw it away or hand it over to someone, Lukashenko noted. 
This is our country. We are a sovereign and independent nation and should be proud of it, he stressed. We should let no one bend us and bring us to our knees. This is the wisdom of the policy we have been pursuing, the Belarusian president said. 
Russian senator slams new US sanctions as ongoing ploy to arbitrarily brand people guilty 
Konstantin Kosachev pointed out that Russia suggested drawing up rules for conduct and security in cyberspace, but the US is not ready to discuss the issue 
Chairman of the Federation Council's Foreign Affairs Committee Konstantin Kosachev 
MOSCOW, December 6. /TASS/. Washington’s new sanctions against Russian citizens have transformed into an extension of the American practice of arbitrarily assigning guilt for crimes, the involvement for which cannot be proven without any standard cooperation between security services. That practice was deliberately terminated by the US, explained Chairman of the Federation Council's Foreign Affairs Committee Konstantin Kosachev. 
“The US Department of the Treasury is continuing its practice of “branding’ [people] guilty at its own discretion. This time, sanctions are being imposed on six Russian companies and a hacker organization, as well as individuals, among them, citizens of Russia, Greece, Israel, Spain and Ukraine. But the most important thing is to state that the cyber attacks, which have allegedly siphoned off $100 mln, were organized by Moscow,” Kosachev told TASS. 
He didn't assess the nature of allegations, since he believes that such things must be the subject of cooperation between security services,” And the US has deliberately cut off such cooperation, presumably to fabricate allegations, impose sanctions and prosecute individuals around the world, unilaterally, without any explanation or transparency,” the senator stressed. 
According to him, this is a “rule-based order”, which Russia is being accused of allegedly disagreeing with. “It seems to me, to put it mildly, that we have our reasons. Legal arbitrariness crosses all the lines in every sense of the word, and it can only be stopped if the international community embarks on joint efforts,” the legislator noted. 
The lawmaker pointed out that Russia suggested drawing up rules for conduct and security in cyberspace, but it is the US who is not ready to discuss the issue. “It means that we have to follow the law, and not the ‘rules’, this is what the ‘world policeman’ is not satisfied with”. Well, then we will talk to others. The world is not limited to the American continent,” Kosachev concluded. 
More sanctions 
On Thursday, the US Department of the Treasury announced the introduction of new sanctions against Maksim Yakubets and Igor Turashev, charged with computer fraud, and certain other individuals and legal entities that are connected, in Washington’s opinion, to the Evil Corp group of hackers. Along with Yakubets and Turashev, there are 15 more individuals on the list, including citizens of Russia, Ukraine, Spain, Greece, Israel and Uzbekistan. 
According to the US Department of the Treasury, sanctions have also been imposed on six Russian legal entities, which are connected to Russian national Denis Gusev, who was also a member of the group of hackers. These entities are Biznes-Stolitsa, Optima, Treid-Invest, CAO, Vertikal and Unicom companies. According to the US Treasury, Gusev was director general of these organizations and assisted the hackers in financial transactions.” 
US authorities have indicted Yakubets and Turashev on charges of conspiracy, computer hacking and fraud. 
Russian foreign ministry calls for joint efforts to keep Fordow and Arak project in place 
A meeting of the Joint Commission of the JCPOA was held in Vienna on December 6 
The Russian Foreign Ministry headquarters in Moscow 
MOSCOW, December 6. /TASS/. Russia’s delegation to the Vienna meeting on the Iranian nuclear deal stressed the necessity of consolidated efforts to keep in place the Fordow and Arak projects, the Russian Foreign Ministry said on Friday. 
The Russian side stressed the acute necessity to consolidate efforts of the remaining participants in the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA) to maintain the viability of comprehensive agreements on the Iranian nuclear program and create a protected environment for the implementation of such major elements of the Plan of Action as reconfiguration of the facility at Fordow to produce stable isotopes and modernization of the reactor at Arak, the ministry said. 
The only obstacle on the path to redress the balance under the JCPOA is the destructive anti-Iranian course of the United States, which has unilaterally refused to implement its part of the nuclear deal approved by United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 and is hampering others from implementing it, the ministry noted. 
A meeting of the Joint Commission of the JCPOA was held in Vienna on December 6. Russia was represented by Deputy Foreign Minister Sergey Ryabkov. 
Iran nuclear deal 
The Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), also known as the Iran nuclear deal, was signed between Iran and six international mediators (the United Kingdom, Germany, China, Russia, the United States, and France) in July 2015. Under the deal, Iran undertook to curb its nuclear activities and place them under total control of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in exchange for abandonment of the sanctions imposed previously by the United Nations Security Council, the European Union and the United States over its nuclear program. 
Iran pledged not to enrich uranium above the level of 3.67% for 15 years and maintain enriched uranium stockpiles at the level not exceeding 300 kg, as well as not to build new heavy-water reactors, not to accumulate heavy water and not to develop nuclear explosive devices. 
The future of the Iranian nuclear deal was called into question after the United States’ unilateral pullout on May 8, 2018 and Washington’s unilateral oil export sanctions against Tehran. Iran argues that all other participants, Europeans in the first place, ignore some of their own obligations in the economic sphere, thus making the deal in its current shape senseless. 
FIFA to ask WADA to ‘clarify the extent’ of sanctions against Russian sports 
The WADA Executive Committee ruled on Monday to strip Russia of the right to participate in or host major international sports tournaments for the period of four years 
MOSCOW, December 9. /TASS/. The world’s governing football body, FIFA, intends to turn to the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) to specify the details of the sanctions imposed against Russian sports earlier in the day, a spokesperson for FIFA told TASS in a statement on Monday. 
The WADA Executive Committee (ExCo) approved on Monday recommendations of its Compliance Review Committee (CRC) to annul the compliance status of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA) as well as to strip Russia of the right to participate in major international sports tournaments, including the Olympics and World Championships, for the period of four years. 
The WADA ExCo also ruled that Russia must not host, or bid for hosting any major international sports tournament in the four-year period. Russian state officials as well as the staff of the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) and the Russian Paralympic Committee (RPC) have been also banned from attending all major international sports tournaments for the period of four years. 
FIFA has taken note of the decision taken by WADA Executive Committee today, the statement from FIFA reads. 
FIFA is in contact with WADA and ASOIF [the Association of Summer Olympic International Federations] to clarify the extent of the decision in regards to football, the spokesperson added. 
Chair of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) Compliance Review Committee (CRC) Jonathan Taylor told a news conference in Lausanne on Monday that in case the Russian national football team qualifies for the 2022 FIFA World Cup, its players will have to play in the so-called neutral status that bans the right of participating in the world championship under the national flag and anthem. 
If they qualify, a team representing Russia cannot participate, but if there is a mechanism put in place, then they can apply to participate on a neutral basis, not as representatives of Russia, Taylor told journalists. 
2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar 
In March 2015, FIFA officially announced that the 22nd edition of FIFA’s flagship event would be played in November and December 2022, with the final match set for December 18, 2022 — Qatar National Day — and with the objective, in principle, of holding the tournament for 28 days. 
Qatar is set to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup between November 21 and December 18 at seven venues across the country, namely in Doha, Lusail, Al-Wakrah, Al-Khor, Al-Rayyan, Umm Salal and Madinat ash Shamal. 
Russia to play in neutral status at 2022 FIFA World Cup if qualifies, WADA’s Taylor says 
The WADA Executive Committee approved Monday the recommendations to annul the compliance status of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency as well as to strip Russia of the right to participate in major int'l sport tournaments for the period of four years 
Chair of the World Anti-Doping Agency Compliance Review Committee Jonathan Taylor 
LAUSANNE, December 9. /TASS/. In case the Russian national football team qualifies for the 2020 FIFA World Cup, its players will have to play in the so-called neutral status that bans the right of participating in the world championship under the national flag and anthem, Chair of the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) Compliance Review Committee (CRC) Jonathan Taylor told a news conference on Monday. 
If they qualify, a team representing Russia cannot participate, but if there is a mechanism put in place, then they can apply to participate on a neutral basis, not as representatives of Russia, Taylor told journalists. 
The WADA Executive Committee (ExCo) approved on Monday recommendations of its Compliance Review Committee (CRC) to annul the compliance status of the Russian Anti-Doping Agency (RUSADA) as well as to strip Russia of the right to participate in major international sports tournaments, including the Olympics and World Championships, for the period of four years. 
The WADA ExCo also ruled that Russia must not host, or bid for or be granted in the four-year period any major international sports tournament. Russian state officials as well as the officials of the Russian Olympic Committee (ROC) and the Russian Paralympic Committee (RPC) have been also banned from attending all major international sports tournaments for the period of four years. 
2022 FIFA World Cup in Qatar 
In March 2015, FIFA officially announced that the 22nd edition of FIFA’s flagship event would be played in November and December 2022, with the final match set for December 18, 2022 - Qatar National Day - and with the objective, in principle, of holding the tournament for 28 days. 
Qatar is set to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup between November 21 and December 18 at seven venues across the country, namely in Doha, Lusail, Al-Wakrah, Al-Khor, Al-Rayyan, Umm Salal and Madinat ash Shamal. 
Normandy Four leaders discussing draft of joint document - Kremlin spokesman 
The Kremlin spokesman said earlier that the Paris summit was not supposed to yield any agreement 
PARIS, December 9. /TASS/. The Normandy Quartet (Russia, France, Germany, Ukraine) leaders continue to discuss the draft of a joint document that, Russian president’s press secretary Dmitry Peskov said on Monday. 
The discussion of a joint document that was drafted beforehand continues. The leaders are discussing current matters, Peskov told journalists. 
The summit of the Normandy Four leaders began in Paris at 19:20 Moscow time. 
The Kremlin spokesman said earlier that the Paris summit was not supposed to yield any agreement. However, in his words, the leaders may adopt a certain document, too early to say what it will be called. This is a non-binding document, a non-binding agreement. However, one can expect some provisions, on which there is a common understanding, to be enshrined in it, he said several days ago. 
Ceasefire in Donbass should be synchronized with political reforms in Ukraine — Putin 
Russian President Vladimir Putin said that amendments should be made to the constitution that envisage the implmentation of the Steinmeier formula 
PARIS, December 10. /TASS/. The process of achieving a ceasefire in Donbass should be synchronized with Kiev's implementation of political reforms envisaged by the 2015 Minsk Agreements, Russian President Vladimir Putin told a press conference after the Normandy Four summit in Paris. 
It is necessary to synchronize the process of achieving a ceasefire with the implementation of political reforms in Ukraine, envisaged by the Minsk Agreements. First of all, we are talking about making amendments to the country's constitution that fix the special status of Donbass on the permanent basis, Putin said. He added that it si necessary to first prolong the document on the special status of certain regions of Donbass and in the end make this norm permanent, as it is envisaged by the Minsk Agreements. 
Moreover, Putin said that amendments should be made to the constitution that envisage the implmentation of the Steinmeier formula. We shoudn't postpone the implementation of other commitments as well, including on amnesty and legal prohibition of prosecution of individuals who took part in the events in the country's south-east, the Russian president noted. 
Putin noted that participants in the summit welcomed the disengagement of forces in three areas along the contact line in Donbass. According to our assessments, every step on the way toward de-esclating the situation in south-eastern Ukraine is important, along with ensuring a comprehensive ceasefire. We hope that the disengagemet of forces will continue step by step, and works on demining and defortification will be completed in the areas of disengagement, he stressed. 
Putin, Erdogan plan phone call in coming days — Kremlin spokesman 
Russia welcomes all initiatives that could help resolve the situation in Libya, according to the presidential press secretary 
MOSCOW, December 10. /TASS/. Russian President Vladimir Putin and his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan plan to hold a telephone conversation in the coming days, Kremlin Spokesman Dmitry Peskov confirmed on Tuesday. 
A telephone conversation will take place in the coming days, preparations are underway, he said, commenting on Erdogan’s statement that he would like to discuss the situation in Libya with Putin. 
Peskov pointed out that Russia maintains relations with all political and military forces involved in Libya’s domestic crisis and calls on the parties to the conflict to show willingness to make agreements. Russia welcomes all initiatives that could help resolve the situation in the country, the Russian presidential spokesman emphasized, adding that the situation in Libya had worsened following certain actions by certain alliances. 
The Turkish leader said on Monday that he would like to hold a telephone conversation with Putin before their meeting in Istanbul on January 8 in order to discuss the situation in Libya. Erdogan was hopeful that Putin will reconsider [his position] on [Libyan National Army commander Field Marshal Khalifa] Haftar. 
Libya crisis 
There are currently two governments in Libya: the internationally recognized Government of National Accord (GNA) headed by Fayez al-Sarraj, which is headquartered in the country’s capital of Tripoli, and Abdullah al-Thani’s cabinet based in the country’s east, which has the support of the Libyan National Army (LNA) led by Field Marshal Khalifa Haftar. 
In April, Haftar announced the beginning of a military operation to liberate Tripoli from terrorist groups. Fayez al-Sarraj, in turn, launched Operation Volcano of Rage to confront the LNA offensive and defend the capital. The military confrontation has claimed hundreds of lives, forced thousands of people to flee their homes and destroyed important infrastructure facilities. 
Argentina’s new president accepts invitation to visit Russia, says legislator 
Russia hopes that the visit can take place as early as next year 
BUENOS AIRES, December 11. /TASS/. Argentina’s President Alberto Fernandez who took office on Tuesday has said he was willing to take advantage of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s invitation to visit Russia, Head of the Russian Federation Council’s (upper house) Foreign Affairs Committee Konstantin Kosachev told reporters. 
Mr. Fernandez gratefully accepted this invitation and asked [us] to tell the Russian president that he will do the best he can to take advantage of that invitation, said Kosachev who represented Russia at Fernandez’s inauguration. 
According to Kosachev, Russia hopes that the visit can take place as early as next year. It is clear that everything will depend on physical ability, his schedule and diplomatic agreements, he added. 
The presidential election was held in Argentina on October 27. Fernandez who represents the center-left coalition won the election securing 47.82% of votes. 
Five civilians killed in Idlib de-escalation zone in December 
Chief of the Russian reconciliation center Yury Borenkov said that six Syrian servicemen were also killed in December in shellings by militants 
MOSCOW, December 12. /TASS/. Five civilians and six Syrian servicemen were killed in December when militants shelled the provinces of Latakia, Hama, Idlib and Aleppo, Major General Yury Borenkov, chief of the Russian Center for reconciliation of the conflicting sides in Syria, told a briefing on Thursday. 
Five Syrian civilians were killed and five more were injured in shellings by militants, who target both positions of the Syrian government forces and residential neighborhoods, Borenkov said. Six people were killed and ten were wounded among the Syrian military, he added. 
Overall, militants from Hayat Tahrir al-Sham (banned in Russia) group and the Syrian National Army have violated the ceasefire 400 times in the provinces of Latakia, Hama, Idlib and Aleppo. 
Besides, the Russian intelligence has reported in the past two days the redeployment of terrorists’ multiple rocket launchers and armored vehicles towards the city of Aleppo and the settlement of Abu al-Duhur in Idlib province. Between December 1 and 12, the Syrian army has destroyed four UAVs with weapons load launched towards its positions, Borenkov added. 
The Russian reconciliation center continues to fulfill the tasks assigned to them after the completion of the military campaign in Syria. They regularly travel around the country's liberated areas to assess the humanitarian situation. The main efforts of the Russian military are now focused on aiding the refugees who are returning back to their homes and evacuating civilians from the war-torn country’s de-escalation zones. 
LPR urges Kiev to submit amendments to Ukraine’s constitution to Donbass’ approval 
We dismiss any ‘decentralization’ adopted without LPR’s and DPR’s approval, Chairman of the LPR’s People’s Council Denis Miroshnichenko said 
LUGANSK, December 14. /TASS/. Lugansk People’s Republic insists on making sure that Kiev submits amendments to the Ukrainian constitution on decentralization of power to the approval of the Donetsk People’s Republic (DPR) and Lugansk People’s Republic (LPR), according to Chairman of the LPR’s People’s Council Denis Miroshnichenko. 
Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelensky has submitted to the Verkhovna Rada’s consideration draft amendments to the constitution on decentralization of power in Ukraine. Those amendments have nothing to do with Ukraine’s compliance with the Minsk Accords and decisions stated within the framework of the latest meeting of the ‘Normandy Four’ leaders, Miroshnichenko was quoted as saying by LuganskInformCenter on Saturday. 
The Minsk Accords stipulate that all amendments concerning the special status of Donbass should take into account its specifics and are obligatory for approval by the Lugansk and Donetsk People’s Republic, he stressed. 
We dismiss any ‘decentralization’ adopted without LPR’s and DPR’s approval, and request discussing those amendments at the next meeting of the Contact Group in Minsk on December 18, Miroshnichenko noted. 
Zelensky submitted the decentralization bill to the Verkhovna Rada on December 13. The text of the document is not available on the parliament’s website. 
Iranian president tells new ambassador to Russia to expand relations with Moscow 
Kazem Jalali was appointed as ambassador to Russia after his predecessor Mehdi Sanai's appointment expired 
TEHRAN, December 15. /TASS/. Iranian President Hassan Rouhani has told new ambassador to Russia Kazem Jalali to work on expanding relations with Moscow. 
The president underscored the importance of working diligently on the implementation of the agreements between the two countries and of expanding relations with Moscow, Rouhani's press service said on Sunday. He also noted the importance of introducing Russia's private and state investors to Iran, the press service added. 
Rouhani met with Jalali before the start of the latter's mission as an ambassador. The date of Jalali's expected arrival in Russia was not specified. 
Jalali was appointed as ambassador to Russia after his predecessor Mehdi Sanai's appointment expired. Sanai has served as Iran's ambassador to Russia since 2013. Jalali served as member of Iran's Mejlis (parliament) until November 2019. 
Japanese foreign minister arrives in Moscow to take part in commission's session 
Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi will take part in the session of the Russian-Japanese inter-governmental commission on trade and economic issues in Moscow 
MOSCOW, December 18. /TASS/. Japanese Foreign Minister Toshimitsu Motegi has arrived in Moscow where he will take part in the session of the Russian-Japanese inter-governmental commission on trade and economic issues, a source close to organizers of the visit told TASS on Wednesday. 
The minister has arrived in the Russian capital, the source said. 
On December 18-19, Motegi will also hold talks with Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov and Economic Development Minister Maxim Oreshkin. 
This is the first Motegi's visit to Russia in the capacity of a minister. He was appointed as Japan's foreign minister in September 2019. Motegi already met with Lavrov during the Russian foreign minister's visit to Japan on November 23. 
Hungary’s top diplomat says TurkStream should not be seen as just benefiting Russia 
Peter Szijjarto said that the majority of countries participating in the Turkish Stream project are NATO members 
MOSCOW, December 18. /TASS/. /TASS/. The Turkish Stream gas pipeline should not be considered as a project that is implemented solely in Russia's interests, Hungarian Foreign Minister Peter Szijjarto told RTVI TV channel on Wednesday. 
Considering the Turkish Stream as the project in which Russia dominates, is incorrect, Szijjarto said. Let's look at the countries involved in the project: Russia, Turkey — NATO member, Bulgaria — EU and NATO member, Serbia — candidate for joining EU, Hungary — EU and NATO member. The majority of countries participating in the project are NATO members. It is dishonest to consider it as a solely Russian project, he added. 
The foreign minister said that his main interest lies in ensuring gas deliveris to Hungary. How can I do this? I am in talks with Russia, Turkey, Bulgaria, Serbia, in order to build this new route, Szijjarto said. What can I do in this situation as a minister responsible for energy talks? I can hold talks with Russia on future gas deliveries. Why? Because there are no other possibilities, he noted. 
Central European countries have to ensure gas deliveries, have to ensure our security, and it is obvious that it is necessary for us to maintain dialogue with Russia, he added. 
Russia optimistic about future of relations with EU 
Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said that the relations between Russia and the EU are going through a very difficult period 
MOSCOW, December 18. /TASS/. Russia is optimistic about the future of relations with the EU, hoping that common sense will prevail and the sides will understand that there is no alternative to mutually beneficial cooperation, Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said during Wednesday’s briefing. 
According to her, the relations between Russia and the EU are going through a very difficult period. However, we are optimistic about the future of these relations and we do not lose hope that Europeans will return to common sense and pragmatism, as they are prone to do, and that they will understand that there is no alternative to mutually beneficial relations in the modern multipolar, highly competitive yet unsafe world, the diplomat noted. 
The diplomat noted that 30 years ago, the Soviet Union signed an agreement on economic cooperation with the European Economic Community and the European Atomic Energy Community. This was the starting point in establishing official relations between Russia and the EU, she stressed. 
Germany opposes extraterritorial sanctions, calls for talks 
Merkel added that talks on the future of Ukrainian gas transit were underway. According to her, the talks look promising, and unnecessary debates around Nord Stream 2 may negatively affect them 
BERLIN, December 18. /TASS/. Berlin opposes extraterritorial sanctions, no matter if they target the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline or Iran, German Chancellor Angela Merkel said at the Bundestag on Wednesday. 
We oppose extraterritorial sanctions, and it did not start yesterday because we faced a similar issue in relation to Iran, Merkel emphasized. I don’t see any other option but to hold decisive talks [with the United States] and point out that we don’t accept extraterritorial sanctions, the German chancellor added. 
Merkel added that talks on the future of Ukrainian gas transit were underway. According to her, the talks look promising, and unnecessary debates around Nord Stream 2 may negatively affect them. 
The United States’ 2020 National Defense Authorization Act, passed by the Senate on Tuesday, obliges the Washington administration to impose sanctions on Russia’s Nord Stream 2 and TurkStream gas pipelines. The legislation will now be sent for signing to US President Donald Trump, who said he would sign the Act once it was passed by the Congress. 
Kiev introduces foreign passports to restrict trips of Ukrainians to Russia, says expert 
The Ukrainian nationals’ foreign passports will be checked by special equipment, the Ukrainian PM informed earlier, noting that the procedure would reduce queues at border control 
KIEV, December 18. /TASS/. The Ukrainian government has obliged Ukrainian citizens to visit Russia only using foreign passports to increase border control and to restrict the amount of trips to Russia, head of the Ukrainian Institute for Analysis and Political Management Ruslan Bortnik told TASS on Wednesday. 
Ukrainian citizens will use only foreign passports when traveling to Russia starting from March 1, 2020. Starting from March 1, 2020 border crossing with Russia for Ukrainian citizens traveling from Ukraine will be carried out only on foreign passports, Ukrainian Prime Minister Alexei Goncharuk informed earlier on Wednesday. 
There are several reasons for this decision. Firstly, unlike a national passport, a foreign document includes stamps on border crossing, which raises the level of border control, Bortnik said. 
The second goal is to restrict the number of Ukrainian citizens travelling to Russia, the expert added. Only a third of the Ukrainian population has foreign passports. According to various estimations, only 14-15 mln Ukrainians have them, which is why this decision will lead to a decrease in trips to Russia, especially in border areas, where people visit relatives, neighbors, friends across the border, especially those who did not have the need to get a foreign passport before. 
The Ukrainian nationals’ foreign passports will be checked by special equipment, the Ukrainian PM informed earlier, noting that the procedure would reduce queues at border control. Citizens traveling from Russia to Ukraine will be allowed to use their internal passports and birth certificates. 
The Ukrainian Foreign Ministry explained the decision to cancel the simplified procedure of entry to Russia for Ukrainian citizens by existing threats to national security in the conditions of armed aggression against Ukraine.. 
RVSN to be fully equipped with modern weaponry in coming years — defense minister 
Currently, the share of modern equipment in service with the Strategic Missile Forces is 76% 
MOSCOW, December 18. /TASS/. The share of modern weaponry in service with Russia’s Strategic Missile Forces (RVSN) will reach 100% in the coming years, Russian Defense Minister Sergei Shoigu said during an event to mark the 60th anniversary of RVSN. 
We are actively rearming, refitting RVSN in all sectors of our nuclear triad. Today, it can be said for sure that the share of modern weaponry in service with RVSN is 76%. In the coming years, we will increase it to 90%, and, I hope, to 100%, he said. The work in this direction continues in a steady and effective manner. 
The minister went on to say that RVSN makes the decisive contribution into Russia’s defense and thanked its personnel for strengthening the country’s security. He described the troops as the most disciplined, the most mighty and the most powerful unit of our armed forces. 
He also noted the contribution made by engineers and workers employed in Russia’s missile industry. 
Shoigu wished RVSN servicemen to never be ordered to use the powerful weapon, which the country had put into your hands.. 
Putin comments on Zelensky’s Minsk Agreements statement 
Putin recalled that the law on the special status for Donbass, prolonged by the Ukrainian parliament just recently, must become permanent 
MOSCOW, December 19. /TASS/. Revision of the Minsk Accords may bring about a stalemate situation in the east of Ukraine, Russian President Vladimir Putin told the customary year-end news conference when asked about the outlook for a settlement in Donbass and his attitude to Kiev’s latest statements on this score. 
There is nothing but the Minsk Accords, Putin said. I find President Vladimir Zelensky’s statements following his departure from Paris that the Minsk Accords can be revised very worrisome. 
He warned that if the existing agreements begin to be revised, the situation may end up in a stalemate. 
Putin recalled that the law on the special status for Donbass, prolonged by the Ukrainian parliament just recently, must become permanent and imbued in the Ukrainian Constitution. 
But neither the current leaders of Ukraine nor the previous ones wish to do that, Putin said. There must be a direct dialogue with Donbass. But there is none. 
He remarked that there was not enough clarity regarding the nature of changes concerning decentralization that had been introduced to Ukrainian legislation just recently. 
Is it a substitute for the Minsk Accords? Or for the law on the special status? If this involves Donbass, then it must be agreed with the region, Putin said. 
The Russian leader believes it is expedient to go ahead with efforts on the platform of the Normandy Quartet. He warned that the Quartet’s summit meeting scheduled for April will be relevant if there are positive changes. Putin agreed that some changes were already in sight, such as the prolongation of the special status law and the reduction in the number of bombardments. 
The basis for a settlement is still there, he said. 
But some problems remain, too, Putin said. For instance, Kiev is reluctant to go ahead with the pullback of forces along the whole disengagement line in Donbass. 
All this requires discussion. Normandy Quartet talks are expedient, he said. 
Principal agreement reached at gas talks in Berlin — Sefcovic 
Trilateral consultations on gas between Russia, Ukraine and the European Commission were held in Berlin on Thursday for over six hours 
BERLIN, December 19. /TASS/. Russia and Ukraine with the mediation from the European Commission have reached at consultations in Berlin a principla agreement on gas transit, former vice president for Energy Union Maros Sefcovic said on Thursday. 
Talks were very intensive, Sefcovic said. We have a principal agreement today, details will be discussed tomorrow in the capitals, he added. 
This represents good news for Europe, Russia, Ukraine and the gas market, Sefcovic noted. 
Trilateral consultations on gas between Russia, Ukraine and the European Commission were held in Berlin on Thursday for over six hours. The current contract between Russia's Gazprom and Ukraine's Naftogaz on Russian gas transit expires on 31 December 2019. The previous trilateral consultations were held on October 28. 
Berlin police possibly foiled terror attack at Christmas market - newspaper 
According to the newspaper, plainclothes officers took notice of two suspicious men at the market 
BERLIN, December 22. /TASS/. Berlin’s police officers have likely foiled a new terror attack at a Christmas market organized at the Breitscheidplatz square, the scene of a 2016 attack when Tunisian Anis Amri drove a truck into the market and its guests, German Die Welt reported on Saturday citing sources in German security agencies. 
According to the newspaper, plainclothes officers took notice of two suspicious men at the market. After checking their identities, one turned out to have confirmed contacts with the Islamic State terrorist organization, while the other men had an arrest warrant issued for him by the United States. Both men were of Syrian decent and were detained. Germany’s Bild tabloid reports that they are placed on a list of potentially dangerous Islamists and have experience in handling explosives. 
The police are now checking a suspicious package that could have been left by the men. Die Welt’s sources are claiming that it might be an improvised explosive device. 
Earlier on Saturday, Berlin’s police evacuated people from the Breitscheidplatz market and the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church located in the same square. Due to the special operation, Berlin S-Bahn railway trains are not stopping at the Zoologischer Garten station nearby. 
On December 19, 2016, terrorist Anis Amri hijacked a truck and deliberately drove into the Christmas market at Breitscheidplatz. The terror attack left 12 people dead and 48 more were rushed to hospitals. After the attack, Amri managed to flee the scene and escaped Germany. On December 23, 2016, he was killed in a shootout with Italian police in the outskirts of Milan. 
Kremlin comments on shooting at FSB headquarters 
MOSCOW, December 23. /TASS/. Russian presidential spokesman Dmitry Peskov has described as tragic the shooting incident in Moscow’s Lubyanka street on December 19, adding that unfortunately such a tragedy could happen to anyone. 
It is a tragic incident, because people died, Peskov told the media on Monday, adding that in his point of view the Kremlin was not obliged to comment on the incident. 
In any case, given the time our country and all countries of the world live in, no one can feel secure against any manifestations of madness entailing tragic consequences, Peskov said. 
Every measure was taken to eliminate this situation, he said. 
At the moment of the incident in Lubyanka street Russian President Vladimir Putin and FSB chief Alexander Bortnikov were in the Kremlin. 
Naturally, the president was receiving all crucial on-line reports about what was going on, Peskov said. That evening a gala ceremony was underway in the Kremlin on the occasion of Security Agency Worker’s Day. 
They [Putin and Bortnikov] were at the show. When there was a break, and the break followed in just several minutes, they walked out, Peskov said. 
In the evening of December 19 a gunman opened fire inside the building of the Federal Security Service in Bolshaya Lubyanka street. One FSB officer was killed instantly and five others, including one civilian were injured. Another injured FSB officer died on the way to the hospital. The FSB’s public relations office told the media the attacker was neutralized. 
Russia’s PM asks government to mull measures in response to US sanctions on Nord Stream 2 
New restrictions affect the interests of a considerable number of European countries, according to the government head 
GORKI, December 23. /TASS/. Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev asked the government to work out measures in response to US sanctions imposed on the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline. 
I would like to ask colleagues from the government, within the framework of the earlier approved presidential decree on tit-for-tat restrictive measures against the whole range of countries, including the United States of America, to look at possibilities of any other restrictive measures in respect of the United States and report to me on the proposals that will be analyzed by you in terms of their efficiency, Medvedev said. 
The US sanctions introduced against the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline are absolutely against competition by their nature, the Prime Minister said. New restrictions affect the interests of a considerable number of European countries, Medvedev noted. These are indeed methods of non-competitive struggle, running counter to all international agreements and principles of international law and international trade, he added. 
Russian diplomats offer to discuss fate of jailed Russians instead of Whelan’s detention 
Earlier, US Embassy in Russia Spokesperson Rebecca Ross wrote on Twitter that US, Canadian, Irish and UK diplomats had visited Whelan on Monday, noting that Whelan had been in custody for over 300 days with no evidence presented 
Viktor Bout sentenced to 25 years in prison in the United States 
MOSCOW, December 23. /TASS/. The Russian Foreign Ministry has offered Washington to discuss the fate of Russian nationals Viktor Bout and Konstantin Yaroshenko, currently serving sentences in US prisons, in response to a message by the US Embassy regarding the detention of US national Paul Whelan on charges of espionage, the Russian diplomats wrote on Twitter. 
Viktor Bout has spent over 4,000 days at a US prison, the ministry wrote. Konstantin Yaroshenko has spent over 3,000 days there. Yaroshenko is not provided with the food he requires due to his health condition. Neither Russian did anything illegal. Whelan was caught in the act. Let’s discuss this, the diplomats stated. 
Earlier, US Embassy in Russia Spokesperson Rebecca Ross wrote on Twitter that US, Canadian, Irish and UK diplomats had visited Whelan on Monday. She noted that Whelan had been in custody for over 300 days with no evidence presented. 
US citizen Paul Whelan, who also holds British, Canadian and Irish citizenship, was detained by the Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) on December 28, 2018 in Moscow while on an alleged spy mission. A criminal investigation was launched against him on espionage charges carrying a punishment of up to 20 years behind bars. 
Russian national Viktor Bout was apprehended in the Thai capital of Bangkok in 2008 on the basis of an arrest warrant issued by a local court at the request of the US. He was charged with conspiracy to deliver weapons to a group calling itself the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), regarded as a terrorist organization by the United States. In 2010, Bout was extradited to the United States. In April 2012, he was sentenced to 25 years in prison and a fine of $15 mln. 
For his part, Russian citizen Konstantin Yaroshenko was convicted in the United States on September 7, 2011 and sentenced to 20 years in prison. He pled not guilty and described his arrest as a provocation and the whole case as a frame-up. Yaroshenko was brought to the United States from Liberia, where he was arrested on May 28, 2010. Agents of the US Drug Enforcement Administration allegedly exposed Yaroshenko’s criminal intent to transport a large batch of cocaine. The Russian authorities and the pilot’s family in Rostov-on-Don have repeatedly asked the United States for Yaroshenko’s handover to Russia. 
Russian Marines: 'Victory is wherever we are!' 
November 27 is observed in Russia as the Naval Infantry Day 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 15 
Russian Marines are the amphibious force of the Russian Navy. First Russian naval infantry force was formed in 1705 
Since that time Russian marines has fought in numerous wars including World War I and II. Photo: Amphibious vehicles participate in Russia's Baltic Fleet exercises on the Baltic Sea coast 
Russian marines perform during a military show marking the 311th birthday of the Russian Naval Infantry 
Russian Marine troops use amphibious vehicles for operating in any regions and in any weather conditions. Photo: BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers during the Kavkaz 2012 exercise in the Caspian Sea 
Photo: Armoured vehicles boarding the Peresvet major amphibious ship during an alert military exercise by Russia's Eastern Military District units 
Russian Naval Infantry is equipped with amphibious tanks, mobile anti-tank and anti-missile systems and automatic small arms 
Photo: BTR-82 armoured personnel carrier involved in the combat practice of naval Infantry of the Baltic Sea coastal defense troops 
Photo: Members of Russian Pacific Navy Infantry artillery units on a firing exercise with Gvozdika 122mm self propelled howitzers 
Photo: Marines in snow camouflage take part in parachute training during a military exercise by Russia's Northern Fleet 
Photo: An armed marine soldier during an alert military exercise by Russia's Eastern Military District units 
Marines are specially trained to perform sea assault and defend naval bases, important inshore territories and coastal facilities 
Photo: The Admiral Nevelsky major amphibious ship during an alert military exercise by Russia's Eastern Military District units 
The Naval Infantry Day is celebrated in Russia on November 27. First Russian naval infantry force was formed in 1705 and since than has fought in numerous wars. Russian Marines are equipped with amphibious tanks, mobile anti-tank and anti-missile systems and automatic small arms to operate in any regions and in any weather conditions. The total number of Russian marines now stands at about 12.5 thousand people. Russian Marines' motto is Where We Are, There is Victory! Photos of Russian naval infantry force in a gallery by TASS 
Lives lost: Russia’s last royal family in pictures 
July 17 marks the 100th anniversary of the execution of the Russian royal family, one of the most shocking events in 20th century history 
Photo {{sliderIndex+1}} from 14 
Emperor Nicholas II with his children, attendant and nanny during their walk in Tsarskoye Selo (former Russian residence of the imperial family near Saint Petersburg), 1907 
Tsarevich Alexei Romanov, heir apparent to the throne of the Russian Empire, 1911 
Emperor Nicholas II of Russia and his wife Alexandra Feodorovna on Ai-Petri Mount in Crimea, 1909 
Children of Nicholas II, Alexei, Maria and Anastasia in nurse's uniforms, 1914-1915 
Overnight from July 16 to July 17, 1918, the last Russian Emperor Nicholas II, his family and their closest assistants were executed by a firing squad in the basement of the house that had belonged to mining engineer Nikolai Ipatyev in Yekaterinburg. The life of last Russian royal family is chronicled in this photo gallery by TASS. 
