
Simply sign up to the War in Ukraine myFT Digest -- delivered directly to your inbox. 
On February 24 2022, the world awoke to news that Russian tanks had rolled into Ukraine. 
This page is regularly updated with the latest maps, charts, videos and satellite imagery showing military, environmental and humanitarian aspects of the war in Ukraine. 
Latest situation 
A Russian ballistic missile struck “very close” to Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis while the pair were visiting the port of Odesa on Wednesday, according to the Greek prime minister. 
Five people were killed by the missile, Ukraine’s navy spokesperson Dmytro Pletenchuk told the Financial Times. Russia said it hit a hangar housing sea drones that have been used to attack Russian ships in the Black Sea. 
“We saw the explosion today,” Zelenskyy said. “You see who we are dealing with, they don’t care where to hit. I know that there were victims today. It doesn’t matter if it’s soldiers, civilians or international [guests], they don’t care.” 
The attack happened shortly after the two leaders and their teams were at Odesa’s harbour, where Zelenskyy was explaining the Black Sea port’s importance to Ukrainian exports and pointing out the damage to infrastructure from Russia’s previous attacks as the full-scale war entered its third year. 
Ukraine’s counteroffensive progress 
With slow progress on its counteroffensive and Russia showing no sign of quitting, Ukraine faces a protracted war that will require long-term support from allies — who are also focused on the Israel-Hamas war. 
Other maps and charts from the war 
June 2023: Destruction of Kakhovka dam 
Following the destruction of the Kakhovka dam in southern Ukraine on June 6, floodwaters devastated towns and villages downstream, with dozens of people perishing in the disaster amid patchy evacuation efforts in Russian-controlled territories. The flood also narrowed Ukraine’s attack options in its counteroffensive, which got under way in early June. 
May 2023: Russian fortifications 
Ukraine’s months-long preparation for its summer counteroffensive to try to wrest back occupied territory allowed Russia to fortify its positions along the almost 1,000km frontline. 
Satellite images reviewed by the Financial Times and analysed by military experts revealed a multi-layered Russian network of anti-tank ditches, mazes of trenches, concrete “dragon’s teeth” barricades, steel “hedgehog” obstacles, spools of razor wire and minefields. 
May 2023: Battle for Bakhmut 
On May 21, Russia’s president Vladimir Putin hailed his first major victory since the early days of the full-scale invasion of Ukraine, claiming that Russian forces had captured the eastern city of Bakhmut, despite Kyiv insisting the battle “was not over”. 
Putin said the Wagner paramilitary group had seized the Ukrainian city with help from Russia’s armed forces after months of bloody fighting that had caused more than 100,000 casualties and reduced the city to ruins. 
Earlier in the year, satellite images from the Vuhledar area, south of Bakhmut in the Donetsk region, revealed the extent of damage in areas that had suffered intense artillery shelling. 
September-November 2022: Ukraine retakes Kherson 
A counteroffensive led to Ukraine liberating 3,000 sq km of territory in just six days, its biggest victory since it pushed Russian troops back from Kyiv in March. 
Ukraine’s forces continued to push east, capturing the transport hub of Lyman, near the north-eastern edge of the Donetsk province, which it wrestled from Russian control on October 1. 
The hard-fought victory came after nearly three weeks of battle and set the stage for a Ukrainian advance towards Svatove, a logistics centre for Russia after its troops lost the Kharkiv region in the lightning Ukrainian counteroffensive. 
Ukrainian forces advanced into Kherson on November 11 after Russia said its forces had completed their withdrawal from the southern city, sealing one of the biggest setbacks to Putin’s invasion. 
Kyiv’s progress and Moscow’s chaotic retreat across the Dnipro river under Ukrainian artillery fire meant Russia surrendered the only provincial capital it had captured in the war, as well as ceding strategic positions. 
March 2022: Russia fails to capture Kyiv 
The Russians were thwarted in Kyiv by a combination of factors, including geography, the attackers’ blundering and modern arms, as well as Ukraine’s ingenuity with smartphones and pieces of foam mat. 
The refugee crisis 
The number of Ukrainians fleeing the conflict has made it one of the largest refugee crises in modern history. 


The War in Donbas' deadliest phase occurred before the Minsk agreements, aimed at ceasefire and settlement. Despite varied reports on Ukrainian military casualties due to underreporting, official figures eventually tallied, indicating significant military and civilian casualties on both sides. The war also saw a substantial number of missing and captured individuals, with efforts to exchange prisoners between conflicting parties. Foreign fighters and civilian casualties added to the war's complexity, with international involvement and impacts extending beyond the immediate conflict zones. 
The subsequent Russian invasion of Ukraine further escalated casualties and destruction. Conflicting reports from Russian and Ukrainian sources indicated high military and civilian casualties, with significant discrepancies in reported numbers. Foreign involvement continued, with both foreign fighters and civilian deaths reported. Efforts to identify and repatriate the deceased, alongside the treatment of prisoners of war, highlighted the human cost of the ongoing conflict. 
Russian annexation of Crimea 
During the Russian annexation of Crimea from 23 February through 19 March 2014, six people were killed. The dead included three protesters, two Ukrainian soldiers and one Russian Cossack paramilitary. On 10 August 2016, Russia accused the Special Forces of Ukraine of conducting a raid near the Crimean town of Armiansk which killed two Russian servicemen. The government of Ukraine dismissed the report as a provocation. Ten people were forcibly disappeared between 2014 and 2016 and were still missing as of 2017. 
The overall number of estimated deaths in the war in Donbas from 6 April 2014 to 31 December 2021 was 14,200–14,400. This included about 6,500 pro-Russian separatist fighters, 4,400 Ukrainian fighters, and 3,404 civilians. This number includes non-combat military deaths, as well as deaths from mines and unexploded ordnance. The vast majority of the deaths took place in the first year of the war, when major combat took place before the Minsk agreements. 
Initially, the known number of Ukrainian military casualties varied widely due to the Ukrainian Army drastically understating its casualties, as reported by medics, activists and soldiers on the ground, as well as at least one lawmaker. Several medical officials reported they were overstretched due to the drastic number of casualties. Eventually, the Ukrainian Defence Ministry stated that the numbers recorded by the National Museum of Military History were the official ones, although still incomplete, with 4,638 deaths (4,500 identified and 138 unidentified) cataloged by 1 December 2021. 
According to the Armed Forces of Ukraine, 1,175 of the Ukrainian servicemen died due to non-combat causes by 5 March 2021. Subsequently, the military did not publish new figures on their non-combat losses, stating they could be considered a state secret. 
Deaths by regions 
The following table does not include the 298 deaths from the shootdown of Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 or the deaths of Ukrainian servicemen, which are listed separately. 
Missing and captured 
By 15 May 2016, the Donetsk region's prosecutors reported 1,592 civilians had gone missing in government-controlled areas, of whom 208 had been located. At the same time, a report by the United Nations stated 1,331–1,460 people were missing, including at least 378 soldiers and 216 civilians. 345 unidentified bodies, of mostly soldiers, were also confirmed to be held at morgues in the Dnipropetrovsk Oblast or buried. In all, as of late October, 774 people were missing according to the government, including 271 soldiers. By the end of December 2017, the number of confirmed missing on the Ukrainian side was 402, including 123 soldiers. The separatists also reported 433 missing on their side by mid-December 2016, and 321 missing by mid-February 2022. 
As of mid-March 2015, according to the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU), 1,553 separatists had been released from captivity during prisoner exchanges between the two sides. Subsequently, Ukraine released another 316 people by late February 2016, according to the DPR and other media reports, while by September, 1,598 security forces members and 1,484 civilians had been released by the rebels. 1,110 separatist fighters and supporters, including 743 civilians, were reportedly still being held by Ukrainian forces as of late March 2016, according to the DPR. They updated the figure of separatist prisoners to 816, including 287–646 civilians, in December. At the end of May 2015, the Ukrainian commander of Donetsk airport, Oleg Kuzminykh, who was captured during the battle for the complex, was released. 
In December 2017, a large prisoner exchange took place where the rebels released 73 out of 176 prisoners they were holding, while Ukraine released 306 out of 380 of their prisoners. Out of those that were released by Ukraine, 29 brought to the exchange point refused to go back to separatist-held territory, while 40 who were already previously released did not show up for the exchange. Meanwhile, out of those released by the rebels, 32 were soldiers. This brought the overall number of prisoners released by the rebels to 3,215. Among those still held by the separatists, 74 were soldiers. The number of released prisoners was updated to 3,224 in late June 2018, while the number of those still held by the rebels was put at 113. At the end of December 2019, a new prisoner exchange took place, with Ukraine releasing 124 separatist fighters and their supporters, while 76 prisoners, including 12 soldiers, were returned to Ukraine by the rebels. Another five or six prisoners released by the separatists decided to stay in rebel-controlled territories. 
Foreign fighters 
Foreign volunteers have been involved in the conflict, fighting on both sides. The NGO Cargo 200 reported that they documented the deaths of 1,479 Russian citizens while fighting as part of the rebel forces. The United States Department of State estimated 400–500 of these were regular Russian soldiers. Two Kyrgyz and one Georgian have also been killed fighting on the separatist side. Additionally, at least 262 foreign-born Ukrainian citizens or foreigners died on the Ukrainian side. One of those killed was the former Chechen rebel commander Isa Munayev. 
In late August 2015, according to a reported leak by a Russian news site, Business Life (Delovaya Zhizn), 2,000 Russian soldiers had been killed in Ukraine by 1 February 2015. 
Foreign civilians and journalists 
At least 306 foreign civilians were killed in the war in Donbas prior to the 2022 invasion: 
Landmines and other explosive remnants 
As a consequence of the conflict, large swaths of the Donbas region have become contaminated with landmines and other explosive remnants of war (ERW). According to the UN Humanitarian Coordinator in Ukraine, in 2020 Ukraine was one of the countries most affected by ERW in the world, and had had nearly 1,200 casualties caused by mines or ERW since the beginning of the conflict in 2014. A report by UNICEF released in December 2019 said that 172 children had been injured or killed due to landmines and other explosives. 
In September 2022, Russia's Ministry of Defence confirmed that 5,937 Russian soldiers had been killed in combat. It also claimed 61,207 Ukrainian soldiers had been killed and 49,368 wounded by this point. In February 2024, the Ministry updated its claim of Ukrainian military casualties to 444,000 killed and wounded. In addition, the DPR confirmed that by 22 December 2022, 4,163 of their servicemen had been killed and 17,329 wounded.[d] Subsequently, leaked US intelligence documents cited the Russian FSB that Russian forces suffered 110,000 casualties by 28 February 2023. 
According to BBC News Russian and the Mediazona news website, out of 47,701 Russian soldiers and contractors whose deaths they had documented by 7 March 2024, 6.86 percent (3,272) were officers, while 7.7 percent (3,656) were Motorized Rifle Troops and 5.3 percent (2,524) were members of the Russian Airborne Forces (VDV). In addition, 12.1 percent (5,765) of Russian soldiers whose deaths had been confirmed were people who were mobilized, while 18.3 percent (8,728) were convicts. The BBC further stated that "Every week, we discover new evidence of Russian military funerals in different localities of Russia, which were not reported by local authorities. Based on these observations, we can assume that the list of confirmed losses maintained by the BBC contain at least 40–60% fewer names of the dead than actually buried in Russia." Thus, the BBC stated that the actual death toll of Russian forces, counting only Russian servicemen and contractors (i.e. excluding DPR/LPR militia), was over 92,000 by early March 2024, "according to the most conservative estimate." 
Wagner PMC chief Yevgeny Prigozhin confirmed that his organization had lost over 20,000 troops killed by May 25, 2023. He went on to claim that overall, the Russian military had lost 120,000 dead in Ukraine by late June. He accused the Ministry of Defence of systematically downplaying Russian losses. 
Postage stamps depicting Russian soldiers killed in the Russo-Ukrainian War in 2022. 
The Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) found that more Russian soldiers died in the first year of the war in Ukraine than in all its other wars since World War II combined, an average 5,000 to 5,800 soldiers a month, vs 13,000 to 25,000 in Chechnya over 15 years and 14,000 to 16,000 in Afghanistan. Thus, the first year of the Ukraine war was 25 times deadlier than Chechnya and 35 times more so than Afghanistan. 
Meanwhile, Ukraine confirmed it had 10,000 killed and 30,000 wounded by the start of June 2022, while 7,200 troops were missing, including 5,600 captured. At the height of the fighting in May and June 2022, according to president Zelenskyy and presidential advisor Mykhailo Podolyak, between 100 and 200 Ukrainian soldiers were being killed in combat daily, while presidential adviser Oleksiy Arestovych said 150 soldiers were being killed and 800 wounded daily. Mid-June, Davyd Arakhamia, Ukraine's chief negotiator with Russia, told Axios that between 200 and 500 Ukrainian soldiers were killed every day. By late July, Ukrainian daily losses fell to around 30 killed and about 250 wounded. As of 25 February 2024, Ukraine confirmed 31,000 of its soldiers had been killed in the conflict. 
According to the UALosses project started at the end of 2023, found to be reliable by Mediazona, Meduza and the Book of Memory group, themselves also running projects tracking military fatalities in the conflict, it had documented by name the deaths of 44,712 Ukrainian fighters as of 10 March 2024. 
As of mid-April 2023, around 7,000 Ukrainian soldiers remained missing, of whom some 60-65 per cent were believed to be prisoners. The number of missing was updated to 15,000 by early October 2023. 
Ukrainian estimates of Russian military losses tended to be high, while Russian estimates of their own losses tended to be low. Combat deaths can be inferred from a variety of sources, including satellite imagery and video image of military actions. According to a researcher at the Department of Peace and Conflict Research at Uppsala University in Sweden, regarding Russian military losses, Ukraine engaged in a misinformation campaign to boost morale and Western media were generally happy to accept its claims, while Russia was "probably" downplaying its own casualties. Ukraine also tended to be quieter about its own military fatalities. According to BBC News, Ukrainian claims of Russian fatalities included the injured as well. Western countries emphasized the Russian military's toll, while Russian news outlets have largely stopped reporting on the Russian death toll. In early June 2022, the Svetlogorsk City Court in the Kaliningrad region ruled that a list of Russian soldiers killed in Ukraine, published by privately owned news websites, constituted "classified information" and its publication could be considered a criminal offense. 
In terms of confirmed deaths of officers (both military and paramilitary) of both parties of war, the number, according to groups collecting that information, is very similar, with 3,272 Russian officers killed as of 13 March 2024, and 3,132 Ukrainian officers killed as of 15 March 2024. 
Paul Poast, associate professor of political science at the University of Chicago, extrapolated and made a prediction in late June 2022, that approximately 125,000 deaths would occur in the first year of the war, based on the daily average fatality rates. 
35,000 killed (24,500 conf. by names), 15,000 missing, 3,400 captured, 90,000–100,000 wounded 
Civilian deaths 
By 24 September 2023, OHCHR had recorded 27,449 civilian casualties in Ukraine since February 24, 2022: 9,701 killed and 17,748 injured. This included 14,231 (4,287 killed and 6,324 injured) in Donetsk and Luhansk. Of these, 10,611 (4,287 killed and 6,324 injured) occurred on territory covered by the government of Ukraine and 3,620 (805 killed and 2,815 injured) on territory controlled by Russian armed forces or their affiliates. Subsequently, the United Nations confirmed that by 15 February 2024, 10,582 civilians had been killed and 19,875 had been injured, but said they believe the real number is higher. 8,898 deaths were caused by explosive weapons "with wide area effects", 343 by mines and explosive remnants, 1,341 by small arms, including from crossfire, or road accidents involving military or civilian vehicles. 
As of 30 June 2023, OHCHR said it had received information on 287 civilian casualties in Western Russia, with 58 killed and 229 injured, while six more were killed and 16 injured in the Republic of Crimea. Sergei Askyonovan, Russian-installed head of Crimea, also alleged that a Ukrainian attack on drilling platforms in the Black Sea near Crimea had left seven Chernomorneftegaz workers missing. The 7x7 Russian opposition media outlet confirmed the deaths of 147 civilians in Russia by 26 February 2024, not including those in Crimea. In addition, missiles struck the Polish border village of Przewodów in Lublin Voivodeship on 15 November 2022, and killed two Polish civilians. 
In April 2022, the civilian death toll included more than 200 children. In March 2022, 55 of the war-related child deaths were from the Kyiv area and another 34 were from Kharkiv. On 17 February 2023, the Ukrainian prosecutor general announced that at least 461 children had been killed since the start of the invasion, with a further 923 wounded. Most of these child victims were from the Donetsk region. 
Foreign civilians 
At least 193 civilian foreign citizens from 24 countries are confirmed to have been killed during the war. Over 70 missing from Azerbaijan were also reported. 
Paul Urey and Dylan Healy, two British aid workers, were captured by Russian forces. Healy was charged with 'forcible seizure of power' and undergoing 'terrorist' training, but later released on 22 September 2022, while Urey died in captivity. An American citizen was also detained by pro-Russian separatists forces and accused of 'participation in pro-Ukrainian protests'. He was released on 28 October 2022, and reached Ukrainian-controlled territory by 14 December. 
Foreign fighters and volunteers 
Excluding the Russian and Ukrainian military casualties, at least 697 combatants and volunteers, foreign citizens or foreign-born, were killed during the war. By January 2023, another 1,000 had been wounded while fighting on the Ukrainian side. Below is a list of the nationalities of foreign volunteers casualties known by name. 
Dead foreign fighters of the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
Two Britons, a Colombian, a Peruvian and a Spanish foreign fighter were also reported missing while fighting alongside the Ukrainian military, and 20 Kyrgyz went missing while fighting for Russia. A Cuban fighting on the Russian side also said that a number of Cuban fighters had been killed or gone missing during the conflict, while Russian sources presented the passport of an American fighter who was claimed to have either been killed or captured, although this was not confirmed. 
Identification and repatriation 
Sergiy Kyslytsya, the Ukrainian Ambassador to the United Nations, announced on 27 February 2022, that the country had reached out to the International Committee of the Red Cross for help in the repatriation effort of the bodies of killed Russian soldiers. Due to concerns that Russia was not reporting the number or any casualties of soldiers in Ukraine, the Ukrainian Interior Ministry began issuing appeals that same day for relatives of Russian soldiers to help identify wounded, captured, or killed soldiers. The initiative, called Ishchi Svoikh (Russian: Ищи Своих, lit. 'Look for Your Own'), appeared aimed in part at undermining morale and support for the war in Russia and was quickly blocked by the Russian government's media regulator the day the initiative began at the request of Russia's Prosecutor-General's Office. 
Ukrainian authorities began using facial recognition technology supplied to them by Clearview AI on 12 March 2022, to help identify the deceased, along with potentially using it to uncover Russian spies, vet people at checkpoints and potentially combat misinformation. The Chief Executive of Clearview claimed that the technology could be more effective than matching fingerprints or other identifiable aspects of the individual, although a study by US Department of Energy raised concerns about decomposition reducing its effectiveness. Kyiv authorities have also reached out to the International Commission on Missing Persons, which was formed to help after the 1990s Balkan conflicts and the 1995 Srebrenica massacre, and identifies individuals by collecting DNA samples from the deceased and families to cross match. The organization will also document the location of the body and how the individual died. 
As Russian soldiers began to retreat the identification of the dead civilians who had been unreported due to communication issues and constant fighting began to be reported. Documentation and identification of the bodies began with many hastily dug graves and rubble being cleared away to photograph and identify the bodies as well as count the number involved. Handwritten tags and passports have been attached to the bodies after identification before they are taken by coroners and officials. In some locations villagers kept track of the deceased, such as in Yahidne, a village north of Kyiv, where they used a school basement wall to write the names of the deceased while under Russian control. 
As of late May 2022, Ukrainian authorities had stored at least 137 bodies of Russian soldiers that were collected near Kyiv, as well as 62 in the Kharkiv region. During June, the bodies of 374 Russian soldiers were exchanged for the bodies of 365 Ukrainian servicemen between Ukraine and Russia. 
Amputations 
On 2 August 2023, a Wall Street Journal investigation found that Ukrainian amputations in the war came to between 20,000 and 50,000 including both military and civilians. In comparison, during World War One 41,000 British and 67,000 Germans needed amputations. 
Prisoners of war 
Russia claimed to have captured 572 Ukrainian soldiers by 2 March 2022, while Ukraine claimed 562 Russian soldiers were being held as prisoners as of 19 March, with 10 previously reported released in prisoner exchanges for five Ukrainian soldiers and the mayor of Melitopol, Ivan Fedorov. Subsequently, the first large prisoner exchange took place on 24 March, when 10 Russian and 10 Ukrainian soldiers, as well as 11 Russian and 19 Ukrainian civilian sailors, were exchanged. Among the released Ukrainian soldiers was one of 13 Ukrainian border-guard members captured during the Russian attack on Snake Island. Later, on 1 April 86 Ukrainian servicemen were exchanged for an unknown number of Russian troops. 
Ukraine's ambassador to the U.S., Oksana Markarova, reported that a platoon of the 74th Guards Motor Rifle Brigade from Kemerovo Oblast surrendered to Ukraine, saying they "didn't know that they were brought to Ukraine to kill Ukrainians". Ukraine held a series of press conferences with about a dozen POWs, where the POWs made comments against the invasion, how they had been manipulated and for the conflict to end. According to The Guardian, while it was likely that Ukraine was using the discomfort of captured soldiers for propaganda purposes, still the videos succeeded in showing the Russian servicemen's "authentic sense" of regret for having come to Ukraine. Amnesty International said that Article 13 of the Third Geneva Convention prohibits videos of captured soldiers. Captured Ukrainian soldiers with British citizenship were recorded calling for Boris Johnson to arrange for them to be freed in exchange for pro-Kremlin Ukrainian politician Viktor Medvedchuk. MP Robert Jenrick called the videos, broadcast separately on Russia-24, a "flagrant breach" of the Geneva Convention. A Russian spokeswoman claimed that she told Johnson in a phone call about the men's treatment that the UK should "show mercy" to Ukrainian citizens by stopping military aid to the Ukrainian government when asked to show the men mercy. 
The head of the Ukrainian Coordination Headquarters for POW Treatment, Iryna Vereshchuk, raised concerns that Russia had not released information to Ukrainian authorities on the location of any Ukrainian POW's and the International Red Cross had not been allowed to see them, as of 16 March. 
By 21 April, Russia claimed that 1,478 Ukrainian troops had been captured during the course of the siege of Mariupol. On 22 April, Yuri Sirovatko, Minister of Justice of the Donetsk People's Republic, claimed that some 3,000 Ukrainian prisoners of war were held in the territory of the DPR. On 20 May, the Russian Ministry of Defense claimed that 2,439 Ukrainian soldiers had been taken prisoner over the previous five days as a result of the surrender of the last defenders of Mariupol, entrenched inside the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works. On 26 May, Rodion Miroshnik, ambassador of the Luhansk People's Republic to Russia, claimed that around 8,000 Ukrainian POWs were held within the territory of the DPR and LPR. According to a statement by Sergei Shoigu, Russia's Minister of Defence, in early June 2022, 6,489 Ukrainian soldiers had surrendered since the start of the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 
In a report by The Independent on 9 June, it cited an intelligence report that more than 5,600 Ukrainian soldiers had been captured, while the number of Russian servicemen being held as prisoners had fallen to 550, from 900 in April, following several prisoner exchanges. In contrast, the Ukrayinska Pravda newspaper claimed 1,000 Russian soldiers were being held as prisoners as of 20 June. 
According to Ukraine, as of 30 December 2022, 3,392 Ukrainian servicemen were being held by Russia as prisoners of war, while 15,000 soldiers and civilians were missing. The ICMP also stated a month earlier that 15,000 people were missing since the start of the Russian invasion. The following day, 31 December, 140 Ukrainian servicemen were released in a prisoner exchange, bringing the number of released prisoners from Russian captivity to 1,464 servicemen and 132 civilians. As of mid-November 2023, 4,337 Ukrainians were still being held by Russia, including 3,574 soldiers and 763 civilians, while by this point 2,598 Ukrainians had been released. By 9 February 2024, the number of prisoners released by Russia rose to 3,135. At least 800 Russian soldiers had also been confirmed to have been released by late February 2023. 
A study of Russian prisoners of war captured by Ukraine found that 55% of the soldiers had been motivated to fight to "improve their livelihoods", while 36% were ideologically motivated. 
Notes 
^ The deaths of the Russian soldiers have not been confirmed by their government and have possibly been included in the toll of dead rebel fighters. 
^ Out of the 1,185 civilians and militants killed in the Luhansk region by 15 February 2015, 456 were civilians who died by 29 October. In addition, 526 of the civilians and militants died in Luhansk city alone by 11 September, of which 300 were confirmed as civilians by 31 August. 
^ The DPR stated 4,176 of its servicemen had been killed and 17,379 wounded between 1 January and 22 December 2022, of which 13 died and 50 were wounded between 1 January and 25 February 2022, leaving a total of 4,163 killed and 17,329 wounded in the period of the Russian invasion. 
^ See table here for a detailed breakdown of civilian deaths by oblast, according to Ukrainian authorities. 
^ The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine uses the terms "combat losses" and "liquidated". According to the BBC and the Kyiv Independent, these figures include wounded soldiers. 
^ By 17 February 2024, the number of confirmed deaths, excluding those in Mariupol, and Volnovakha, reached 1,863 while according to the local government of Mariupol, the number of deaths in the city is more than 25,000. Taking this into account, the overall number of civilians killed could be up to 26,863. 
^ Aid worker Paul Urey was captured by Russian forces on 29 April 2022 and died in detention on 15 July 2022. Aid workers Chris Parry and Andrew Bagshaw were killed in Bakhmut, the latter held dual UK and New Zealand citizenship. 
^ Killed by a quadcopter that dropped an explosive device on a vehicle at the Troebortnoye border checkpoint, in Russia's Bryansk Region 
^ A killed Italian citizen was initially reported as Dutch because he had lived for several years in the Netherlands. 
^ a b c Both Abkhazia and South Ossetia are generally recognised as part of the sovereign territory of Georgia. 
^ a b "Книга пам'яті загиблих" [Memorial Book to the Fallen]. Herman Shapovalenko, Yevhen Vorokh, Yuriy Hirchenko (in Ukrainian). Archived from the original on 28 October 2022. Retrieved 31 January 2015. 
^ a b The Museum of Military History also lists separately 138 currently unidentified soldiers who were killed: 65 at Krasnopolye cemetery, 63 at Kushugum cemetery  and 10 at Starobilsk cemetery. 
^ Shapovalenko, Herman; Yevhen Vorokh; Yuriy Hirchenko. Книга пам'яті загиблих [Memorial Book to the Fallen]. memorybook.org.ua (in Ukrainian). Archived from the original on 12 April 2016. Retrieved 31 January 2015. 
^ Hilary Andersson (7 November 2022). "The agony of not knowing, as Mariupol mass burial sites grow". BBC. Retrieved 30 September 2023. Ukrainian officials now believe that at least 25,000 people were killed in the fighting in Mariupol, and that 5,000-7,000 of them died under the rubble after their homes were bombed 
^ The DPR stated 1,514 of its civilians were killed in its territories between 1 January 2022 and 18 February 2024, of which 8 died between 1 January and 25 February 2022, leaving a total of 1,506 killed in the period of the Russian invasion. 
^ The JCCC stated that 4,832 civilians had been killed since the start of the invasion by 13 February 2024: 831 within the original borders of the DPR, and 3,831 killed in the areas since occupied by the DPR. 
^ The LPR stated that more than 900 civilians had been killed since the start of the invasion by 31 December 2022, both in the original borders of the LPR, and the areas since occupied by the LPR, and including 169 deaths in Ukrainian artillery strikes on LPR territory. In addition, according to the LPR, 72 more civilians were killed in artillery strikes in 2023, leaving a total of more than 972 civilians deaths in LPR-controlled territories since the start of the invasion 
^ "At Least 23 Armenians Have Died in Ukraine Conflict". asbarez. 6 April 2022. Davit Mkrtchyan, the deputy chairman of the Union of Armenians of Ukraine, said on Wednesday that 18 of them were civilians while the five others served in the Ukrainian military. 
^ "At Least 23 Armenians Have Died in Ukraine Conflict". asbarez. 6 April 2022. Davit Mkrtchyan, the deputy chairman of the Union of Armenians of Ukraine, said on Wednesday that 18 of them were civilians while the five others served in the Ukrainian military. 
^ By 14 March 2024, 11 Canadian nationals had been killed in Ukraine, including one aid worker. 
^ "Otros cuatro colombianos habrían muerto combatiendo en Ucrania". El Expectador (in Spanish). 23 February 2024. According to data from the Foreign Ministry, at least 31 compatriots who voluntarily went to fight there have died in the war in Ukraine. With these cases, the number would increase to 35. 
^ "MVEP potvrdio smrt hrvatskog državljanina u Ukrajini". Vecernji (in Croatian). 16 September 2022. Andro Fabijanić worked for the association "For Heroes" from the city of Dnipro, which delivered bandages and other medical aid to Ukrainian fighters. 
^ "The Ukrainian Lebanese are witnesses to the war.. and victims" (in Arabic). 1 April 2023. Retrieved 3 June 2023. Therefore, a number of Lebanese-Ukrainian youths who hold the rank of lieutenant and have required specializations in the army were quickly accepted into its ranks. ...unfortunately, with the martyrdom of the young man, Hussein al-Mahdi, 38, who was originally from southern Lebanon, and the young man, Ahmed Omar Abu al-Aila Zakaria, from northern Lebanon, and they are two married young men who hold Ukrainian citizenships. 
^ By 4 March 2024, 12 Polish citizens had been confirmed killed in Ukraine, including one civilian. 
^ By 2 February 2024, at least 50 US citizens had been confirmed killed in Ukraine, including four civilians. 


The Global Conflict Tracker is an interactive guide to ongoing conflicts around the world of concern to the United States with background information and resources. This project is supported by the Carnegie Corporation of New York. 
War in Ukraine 
A Ukrainian serviceman reacts while holding a weapon in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on February 25, 2022. 
Maksim Levin/Reuters 
A person walks his dog in front of a damaged residential building, after Russia launched a massive military operation against Ukraine, in Kyiv, Ukraine on February 25, 2022. 
Umit Bektas/Reuters 
A closer view of military vehicles in Yelnya, Russia, is seen in this satellite image taken on January 19, 2022. 
Maxar Technologies/Reuters 
Servicemen of pro-Russian militia hoist flags of Russia and the separatist self-proclaimed Luhansk People’s Republic (LNR) outside a bank branch in Stanytsia Luhanska in the Luhansk region, Ukraine, on February 27, 2022. 
Alexander Ermochenko/Reuters 
Smoke rising after shelling on the outskirts of the city is pictured from Kyiv, Ukraine, on February 27, 2022. 
Mykhallo Markiv/Reuters 
A view shows fragments of destroyed military vehicles on a road in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on February 25, 2022. 
Maksim Levin/Reuters 
Servicemen of the Ukrainian National Guard take positions in central Kyiv, Ukraine, on February 25, 2022. 
Gleb Garanich/Reuters 
Two years since Russia’s full-scale invasion, Ukraine has recaptured 54 percent of occupied territory, while Russia still occupies 18 percent of the country. Ukraine’s counteroffensive efforts have stalled, and Russia has fortified its defensive lines in eastern Ukraine. Meanwhile, Russia continues to bombard Ukrainian cities and blockade its ports, and Ukraine has stepped up drone attacks on Russian ships and infrastructure. Since January 2022, Ukraine has received about $278 billion in aid, including $75 billion from the United States, though it warns of donor fatigue. Fighting and air strikes have inflicted over 30,000 civilian casualties, while 3.7 million people are internally displaced, and 6.5 million have fled Ukraine. 14.6 million people need humanitarian assistance. 
Background 
Armed conflict in eastern Ukraine erupted in early 2014 following Russia’s annexation of Crimea. The previous year, protests in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, against Ukrainian President Viktor Yanukovych’s decision to reject a deal for greater economic integration with the European Union (EU) were met with a violent crackdown by state security forces. The protests widened, escalating the conflict, and President Yanukovych fled the country in February 2014. 
One month later, in March 2014, Russian troops took control of the Ukrainian region of Crimea. Russian President Vladimir Putin cited the need to protect the rights of Russian citizens and Russian speakers in Crimea and southeast Ukraine. Russia then formally annexed the peninsula after Crimeans voted to join the Russian Federation in a disputed local referendum. The crisis heightened ethnic divisions, and two months later, pro-Russian separatists in the eastern Ukrainian regions of Donetsk and Luhansk held their own independence referendums. 
Armed conflict in the regions quickly broke out between Russian-backed forces and the Ukrainian military. Russia denied military involvement, but both Ukraine and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) reported the buildup of Russian troops and military equipment near Donetsk and Russian cross-border shelling immediately following Crimea’s annexation. The conflict transitioned to an active stalemate, with regular shelling and skirmishes occurring along frontlines separating Russian- and Ukrainian-controlled eastern border regions. 
Beginning in February 2015, France, Germany, Russia, and Ukraine attempted to kickstart negotiations to bring an end to the violence through the Minsk Accords. The agreement framework included provisions for a ceasefire, withdrawal of heavy weaponry, and full Ukrainian government control throughout the conflict zone. Efforts to reach a diplomatic settlement and satisfactory resolution, however, were largely unsuccessful. 
In April 2016, NATO announced the deployment of four battalions to Eastern Europe, rotating troops through Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, and Poland to deter possible future Russian aggression elsewhere on the continent, particularly in the Baltics. In September 2017, the United States also deployed two U.S. Army tank brigades to Poland to further bolster NATO’s presence in the region. 
In January 2018, the United States imposed new sanctions on twenty-one individuals—including a number of Russian officials—and nine companies linked to the conflict in eastern Ukraine. In March 2018, the U.S. Department of State approved the sale of anti-tank weapons to Ukraine, the first sale of lethal weaponry since the conflict began. In October 2018, Ukraine joined the United States and seven other NATO countries in a series of large-scale air exercises in western Ukraine. The exercises came after Russia held its own annual military exercises in September 2018, the largest since the fall of the Soviet Union. 
In October 2021, months of intelligence gathering and observations of Russian troop movements, force build-up, and military contingency financing culminated in a White House briefing with U.S. intelligence, military, and diplomatic leaders on a near-certain mass-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine. In the days and weeks leading up to the invasion, the Joe Biden administration made the unconventional decision to reduce information-sharing constraints and allow for the broader dissemination of intelligence and findings, both with allies—including Ukraine—and publicly. The goal of this strategy was to bolster allied defenses and dissuade Russia from taking aggressive action. Commercial satellite imagery, social media posts, and published intelligence from November and December 2021 showed armor, missiles, and other heavy weaponry moving toward Ukraine with no official explanation from the Kremlin. In mid-December 2021, Russia’s foreign ministry called on the United States and NATO to cease military activity in Eastern Europe and Central Asia, commit to no further NATO expansion toward Russia, and prevent Ukraine from joining NATO in the future. The United States and other NATO allies rejected these demands and threatened to impose severe economic sanctions if Russia took aggressive action against Ukraine. 
In early February 2022, satellite imagery showed the largest deployment of Russian troops to its border with Belarus since the end of the Cold War. Negotiations between the United States, Russia, and European powers—including France and Germany—failed to bring about a resolution. In late February 2022, the United States warned that Russia intended to invade Ukraine, citing Russia’s growing military presence at the Russia-Ukraine border. President Putin then ordered troops to Luhansk and Donetsk, claiming the troops served a “peacekeeping” function. The United States responded by imposing sanctions on the regions and the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline a few days later. Nevertheless, just prior to the invasion, U.S. and Ukrainian leaders remained at odds regarding the nature and likelihood of an armed Russian threat, with Ukrainian officials playing down the possibility of an incursion and delaying the mobilization of their troops and reserve forces. 
On February 24, 2022, during a last-ditch UN Security Council effort to dissuade Russia from attacking Ukraine, Putin announced the beginning of a full-scale land, sea, and air invasion of Ukraine, targeting Ukrainian military assets and cities across the country. Putin claimed that the goal of the operation was to demilitarize and denazify Ukraine and end the alleged genocide of Russians in Ukrainian territory. U.S. President Joe Biden declared the attack “unprovoked and unjustified” and issued severe sanctions against top Kremlin officials, including Putin and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov; four of Russia’s largest banks; and the Russian oil and gas industry in coordination with European allies. On March 2, 141 of 193 UN member states voted to condemn Russia’s invasion in an emergency UN General Assembly session, demanding that Russia immediately withdraw from Ukraine. 
As the initial Russian invasion slowed in March, long-range missile strikes caused significant damage to Ukrainian military assets, urban residential areas, and communication and transportation infrastructure. Hospitals and residential complexes also sustained shelling and bombing attacks. Later that month, Russia announced that it would “reduce military activity” near Kyiv and Chernihiv. By April 6, Russia had withdrawn all troops from Ukraine’s capital region. In the aftermath of the Russian withdrawal from Kyiv’s surrounding areas, Ukrainian civilians described apparent war crimes committed by Russian forces, including accounts of summary executions, torture, and rape. 
On April 18, Russia launched a new major offensive in eastern Ukraine following its failed attempt to seize the capital. By May, Russian forces took control of Mariupol, a major and highly strategic southeastern port city that had been under siege since late February. Indiscriminate and targeted attacks against civilians in the city, including an air strike on a theater and the bombing of a maternity hospital, amplified allegations against Russian forces for international humanitarian law violations. Since the summer of 2022, fighting has largely been confined to Ukraine’s east and south, with Russian cruise missiles, bombs, cluster munitions, and thermobaric weapons devastating port cities along the Black Sea and the Sea of Azov. 
The Russian seizure of several Ukrainian ports and subsequent blockade of Ukrainian food exports compounded an already acute global food crisis further exacerbated by climate change, inflation, and supply chain havoc. Prior to the conflict, Ukraine had been the largest supplier of commodities to the World Food Program (WFP), which provides food assistance to vulnerable populations. In July, Russia and Ukraine signed an agreement to free more than twenty million tons of grain from Russian-controlled Ukrainian ports. The first grain shipments to leave Ukraine since the Russian invasion departed from Odesa on August 1, 2022; they arrived in Russian-allied Syria on August 15, although their originally presumed destination had been Lebanon. On October 29, Russia suspended the grain deal in response to an alleged Ukrainian attack on Russian naval forces, which Ukraine called a “false pretext.” Nonetheless, Russia did not enforce the blockade when Ukraine defiantly continued shipments. Turkey quickly negotiated Russia’s return to the deal, which was consistently extended until July 17, 2023, when Russia quit the deal. 
In mid-August, the southern shift of the war’s frontline sparked international fears of a nuclear disaster at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant along the Dnipro River. The largest nuclear plant in Europe, the Zaporizhzhia facility was seized by Russian forces in the earliest stages of the war. Fighting in the territory surrounding the facility has raised concerns that the plant could be critically damaged in the crossfire: shelling of the plant’s switchyard has already led to a city-wide black-out in Enerhodar, where the plant is located. Representatives of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), including Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi, visited the plant in early September to assess the threat of a nuclear accident. In a report [PDF] on the findings of its inspection, the IAEA called for “a nuclear safety and security protection zone” around the plant and for “all military activity” in the adjacent territory to cease immediately. 
In September 2022, Ukrainian forces made strong advances in the northeast and mounted a revitalized southern counteroffensive. Ukraine retook significant territory in the Kharkiv region, surprising Russian forces and cutting off important supply lines at Lyman before stalling and settling into a new front line. Shortly after, in southern Ukraine, Russia hastily withdrew across the Dnipro River as Ukrainian forces retook the city of Kherson and all territory west of the river. 
Russia then redeployed forces eastward to Donetsk, in addition to sending tens of thousands of reinforcements to the area in advance of a February 2023 offensive. Russia also announced a partial mobilization on September 21, 2022, to refurbish the Russian army, prompting thousands of Russians to flee amid antiwar protests, and moved to annex four occupied territories: Luhansk, Donetsk, Kherson, and Zaporizhzhia. In his speech announcing the illegal annexation of Ukrainian territory, Putin also hinted at the possibility of nuclear escalation, claiming that the United States had set a precedent by dropping nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II. 
Recent Developments 
Following a winter stalemate, Putin announced plans in February to take all of Donbas by March 2023 in an offensive surge. However, the attack made little progress and devolved into a months-long siege of Bakhmut, a town of limited strategic value with a pre-war population of seventy thousand. The United States estimates Russia suffered one hundred thousand casualties in Bakhmut, including twenty thousand deaths. Ukraine also took heavy casualties in the urban warfare. By late May, Russia claimed to have taken the city. 
On June 6, 2023, a breach in the Nova Kakhovka dam, sixty kilometers north of Kherson on the Dnipro River, caused severe flooding in southwest Ukraine, affecting over eighty thousand people who live in the riparian zone. Ukraine accused Russia of blowing up the dam to prevent a southeastern offensive. The Ukrainian dam operator said it was destroyed beyond repair. Furthermore, the draining of the reservoir raised concerns over the availability of water to cool the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant reactors, though the cooling ponds are reportedly stable. 
In June 2023, Ukraine launched a much-anticipated counteroffensive, attempting to break through Russian defenses eastward in Donetsk province, including around Bakhmut, and southward in Zaporizhzhia province, which forms the “land corridor” to Crimea. Ukrainian forces met stiff resistance and suffered heavy losses against hardened Russian defensive positions, air superiority, and minefields. Nonetheless, Ukraine made small gains on the ground and has stepped up attacks on bridges to Crimea, Russian ships, and buildings in Moscow. 
Since February 24, 2022, the United States has committed nearly forty billion dollars in assistance to Ukraine, including nineteen billion in immediate military aid and sixteen billion in humanitarian aid. Additionally, in early 2023 the Biden administration approved the provision of increasingly advanced weaponry, such as the Patriot air defense system, crucial for defending against Russian airstrikes, and top-tier battle tanks. The United States has also dramatically increased U.S. troop presence in Europe, bringing the total to more than one hundred thousand. While the United Nations, Group of Seven member states, EU, and others continue to condemn Russia’s actions and support Ukrainian forces, Russia has turned to countries like North Korea and Iran for intelligence and military equipment and continues to sell discounted oil and gas to India and China, among others. 
On June 23, Putin faced a major internal challenge when Yevgeniy Prigozhin released a video claiming the Russian Ministry of Defense (MoD) shelled Wagner forces and announced a “march of justice” to unseat the military leadership. The mutiny followed months of tensions with the MoD, which Prigozhin often insulted and accused of not supplying adequate munitions, and an attempt by the MoD to reign in Wagner fighters. Wagner forces quickly occupied Rostov-on-Don and seized Russia’s southern military headquarters. Wagner convoys then advanced more than halfway to Moscow; Putin declared the march “treason” and offered amnesty for soldiers who stopped. On June 24, Belarussian President Alexander Lukashenko negotiated for Wagner soldiers to return to their bases and for Prigozhin to move to Belarus. Two months after the revolt, Prigozhin died in a private plane crash outside of Moscow. Although a definitive conclusion for the cause of the crash has not been reached, U.S. officials believe an explosion ordered by Putin likely brought it down. 
In November 2023, Commander-in-Chief Valerii Zaluzhnyi said the war had reached a stalemate after Ukraine’s failed counteroffensive. This assessment resulted in months of tensions between Zaluzhnyi and Zelenskyy over strategy and tactics. On February 8, Zelenskyy replaced Zaluzhnyi with General Oleksandr Syrsky, who led two successful counteroffensives since the beginning of the invasion. Soon after his appointment, Syrsky ordered the withdrawal of troops from Avdiivka, a strategically important town in Donetsk, where fighting was ongoing for four months. He argued the retreat was necessary to avoid being encircled. The decision, however, handed Russia its most significant battlefield victory since the capture of Bakhmut in May 2023. 
For CFR's full coverage of Ukraine, please visit our topic page. 
Latest News 
Sign Up for Our Newsletter 
Receive the Center for Preventive Action's quarterly snapshot of global hot spots with expert analysis on ways to prevent and mitigate deadly conflict. 
By entering your email and clicking subscribe, you're agreeing to receive announcements from CFR about our products and services, as well as invitations to CFR events. You are also agreeing to our Privacy Policy and Terms of Use. 


IE 11 is not supported. For an optimal experience visit our site on another browser. 
SKIP TO CONTENT 
Why are angry farmers blocking highways from Paris to New Delhi? 
Farmers in India and across Europe are protesting the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine, rising competition and climate change mitigation, among other issues. 
Protesting farmers blocked traffic in New Delhi last week.Sanchit Khanna / Hindustan Times via Getty Images 
For weeks, Karan Singh camped in a makeshift tent some 180 miles from India's capital, New Delhi. 
Singh and five other farmers from his village in the western state of Punjab have been living on their own supplies, including a gas cylinder and raw produce they packed from their farms when they drove down in a tractor to join thousands more in a mounting campaign to pressure the government to raise crop prices. 
“I am drowning in debt,” said Singh, who mainly farms wheat and rice on his 10-acre plot of land. “We are utilizing our farms as much as we can. There’s no lack of production, but we are not able to get any fair price for it.” 
Tractors have been rolling down highways not just in India but across Europe — where issues including the impact of Russia’s war in Ukraine, climate change and efforts to fight it as well as rising competition have driven angry farmers to the streets of Paris, Brussels and beyond. 
While the specific factors fueling the anger vary from country to country, the result is largely the same: Farmers say governments need to take drastic action if their way of life is to survive. And the timing is no coincidence, experts say, with protesters seeking favorable policies in a year with a record number of elections around the globe. 
“Most farmers are not making a profit. Most of them are scraping by and doing backbreaking work most city people don’t understand,” said Chris Hegadorn, a former U.S. diplomat and an adjunct professor of food politics at Sciences Po in Paris. 
“Election cycles allow them to press their case publicly,” Hegadorn said. 
Singh and thousands of farmers in northern India began marching to the capital earlier this year demanding higher prices for their crops, among other debt relief measures. They were met with tear gas, rubber bullets, internet blackouts and police batons and blocked from the capital for weeks until last Thursday, when they were allowed to rally there. 
Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his ruling Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP) are seeking to avoid a clash with the farmers ahead of elections later this year. 
“I think Modi and the BJP government are frightened by the power of farmers,” said Garrett Graddy-Lovelace, an associate professor at American University in Washington, D.C. 
“They are a formidable political force,” she added. 
Farmers say they are not asking for subsidies but a fair price that would see them receive a 50% profit over their cost of production. 
“The urgency of staying on the land depends upon a fair price,” Graddy-Lovelace said, “so they can stay on their land and keep nourishing the people.” 
For decades they relied on a minimum support price for their crops, which is a rate at which the government guarantees to buy surplus stock at the end of the harvest. State governments have historically bought only rice and wheat at the fixed level. 
But in 2020, the government opened up the markets to corporate buyers, who work directly with the farmers. 
“It looked good on paper,” Graddy-Lovelace said. But “the farmers knew that if they were dealing directly with the buyer, the buyers would drive the price down to nothing.” 
Months of protests and deadly clashes with authorities in New Delhi ultimately forced the government to repeal the new farm laws, in what was seen as one of Modi’s biggest political defeats since he took office in 2014. 
It was an “extraordinary victory,” Graddy-Lovelace said, “not just for India, but actually pushes back against a whole kind of global paradigm that free trade works for farmers.” 
But the farmers say that the government has not kept promises made in the wake of that clash, leading Singh and others to travel far from home in a bid to secure reforms. 
‘Farmers’ concerns are real’ 
It’s not just India where farmers are struggling. 
Across the European Union, farmers say they are battling soaring costs of living and production, rising taxes and the burden of new environmental rules, which they say renders them uncompetitive against cheaper imports from abroad. 
Hegadorn said that in recent years governments have made a “huge number of political commitments ... to reduce greenhouse gases." 
Over the last few months, protests have united farmers across the Continent. In France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Italy and Greece, farmers have blared horns and in some cases dumped manure at government buildings in a bid to put their plea for reforms at the forefront of the E.U. parliamentary elections to be held in June. 
One major issue, they say, is burdensome red tape related to the mass of regulations that come as a condition for the subsidies that farmers across Europe depend on. 
“It’s very bureaucratic. You need to pay an accountant and a lawyer to advise you,” said Arnold Puech, president of the World Farmers Organization and a poultry and beef farmer in northern France’s Normandy region. Even the slightest error in paperwork or during farm inspections can attract a large fine, he said. 
“It’s my wife who spends all her time in front of the computer to do these administrative tasks,” he said. 
Protesters are also calling for a withdrawal from the E.U.’s Green Deal to fight climate change, which they say is too costly. In Germany and France, Europe’s biggest agricultural producers, farmers are furious over the rise in diesel costs brought by the end of subsidies and tax breaks. 
The protests have led politicians across the Continent to vow to ease the burden on farmers and water down some regulations. But the farmers’ drive to shift Europe’s approach has drawn pushback, too. 
Environmentalists say stringent measures are necessary to fight climate change, especially since Europe’s agricultural sector accounts for a large portion of the Continent's greenhouse gas emissions, despite accounting for only 1.4% of E.U. GDP in 2022, according to the European Commission. 
“Farmers’ concerns are real,” said Julia Bognar, land use and climate program head at the Institute for European Environmental Policy. 
“However, there needs to be a long-term vision for the agricultural sector to transition toward more climate-friendly practices,” she said. 
The bargaining power farmers used to have has weakened, Bognar said, pushing them to use measures that ultimately have “negative environmental impacts.” 
“Funding must be sufficient and stable to provide positive incentives toward mitigation actions,” she added. 
There are fears that the farmers’ protests are being seized on by far-right parties — which are expected to surge in those Europe-wide elections this summer — and by the Kremlin, too. 
Ukraine, often referred to as Europe’s breadbasket, has long been dependent on its own agricultural sector. As part of its efforts to support Kyiv amid Russia’s war, the E.U. has exempted the country from import duties, which has led to agricultural products not bound by the E.U.’s costly environmental standards flooding the Continent. 
That has infuriated farmers, who are now competing not only with local rivals but also with Ukrainian imports that are simply cheaper than what they can produce. 
Thousands of farmers and supporters marched in Warsaw this month, demanding that the Polish border with Ukraine be closed to cut off the imports. They blew horns, burned smoke bombs in the white-and-red colors of the national flag and threw stones at police, injuring several officers in front of parliament. 
The Polish government blamed unspecified “provocateurs and troublemakers” for the violence, as opposed to “real farmers” whose complaints it has pledged to address. 
Some protests in Poland have featured banners in favor of Russian President Vladimir Putin and against Ukraine, raising fears in Warsaw and beyond that Moscow is seeking to leverage long-standing issues to fuel opposition to European support for Ukraine. 
The protests have raised tensions between the governments in Kyiv and Warsaw, which has been a close backer of Ukraine. 
The E.U. reached a deal on Wednesday for new limits on imports of Ukrainian farm products. 
But it seems clear that the underlying issues are not going away any time soon, and that governments from Europe to India will have to find answers to those blaring horns. 


CNN values your feedback 
1. How relevant is this ad to you? 
2. Did you encounter any technical issues? 
Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues 
Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues 
Cancel Submit 
Thank You! 
Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. 
What we're covering 
Russia launched missile strikes at the southwestern port city of Odesa, killing at least eight people, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. Heavy fighting also continues in eastern Ukraine. 
An evacuation corridor from the besieged southern city of Mariupol was “thwarted” by Russian forces on Saturday, according to a Ukrainian official. Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk earlier warned that Russian troops might open a “parallel corridor” to take residents to territories they control. 
Russia revealed the goal of its invasion is to take “full control” of southern Ukraine as well as the eastern Donbas region and to establish a land corridor connecting Russia to Crimea, the peninsula it annexed in 2014. 
Having connection issues? Bookmark CNN’s lite site for fast connectivity. 
Ukrainian military says it hit 17 air targets on Saturday 
From CNN's Hira Humayun and Josh Pennington 
Ukraine’s military said it hit 17 air targets on Saturday, according to a Telegram statement from the country’s Ministry of Defense (MoD). 
The targets included three Russian aircraft, five cruise missiles and nine unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), according to the statement. 
“Air Force and Land Forces anti-aircraft missiles struck nine operational-tactical drones, three aircraft and five cruise missiles,” the MoD statement read. 
Earlier on Saturday, the MoD said on Telegram that at 10pm local time, soldiers in the Odesa region shot down two Russian cruise missiles fired from the Black Sea by a Russian ship heading towards the South Port. 
Link Copied! 
Zelensky decries Russian attack during Easter holiday for Ukraine’s Christians 
A Ukrainian priest blesses traditional cakes and painted eggs prepared for an Easter celebration in the in Lviv, Ukraine, Saturday, April 23. 
(Mykola Tys/AP) 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky accused Russia of being a “sponsor of terrorism” in his nightly address Saturday, decrying a deadly attack on the southern port of Odesa that coincided with the observance of Holy Saturday before the Easter holiday celebrated on April 24 by many Christians in Ukraine. 
“Today was Holy Saturday for Christians of the Eastern Rite. The day between the Crucifixion and the Resurrection. It seems that Russia is stuck on such a day,” Zelensky said. “But there will be a Resurrection. Life will defeat death. The truth will defeat any lies, and evil will be punished.” 
At least eight people, including a three-month-old baby, were killed in Russian missile strikes in Odesa on Saturday, Zelensky said. A Ukrainian official earlier said at least six cruise missiles were launched at the port city, as Russia continues its brutal offensive in south and east of the country. 
In his remarks Saturday evening, Zelensky thanked the country’s defenders “who ensure our security this night before Easter and every day,” and vowed justice for Ukraine. 
“It is only a matter of time before all Russian murderers feel what a fair response to their crimes is. It is only a matter of time before we can bring all the deported Ukrainians home. It is only a matter of time before all our people all over Ukraine feel what a strong peace is,” he said. 
Many Ukrainians celebrate Easter according to the Julian calendar, with Easter Sunday falling this year on April 24. 
Link Copied! 
Zelensky says Blinken and Austin will visit Ukraine on Sunday, as diplomacy returns to Kyiv 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken, and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin pose for a photograph at the State Department in Washington, on Thursday, Sept. 16, 2021. 
(Andrew Harnik/Pool/AP) 
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin will visit Kyiv on Sunday, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky, in what would be the first visit of high-level US officials to the embattled country since the war broke out. 
The potential visit, which has not been confirmed by Washington, would come on the heels of several high-profile visits from European leaders to the capital and moves to reopen evacuated embassies. 
The British government is expected to re-open its embassy next week, “dependent on the security situation,” its government confirmed, following an announcement from Johnson Friday. The European Union earlier this month said it too was restoring its diplomatic presence in the capital. 
The shift comes after Moscow rerouted its focus away from the capital and to Ukraine’s south and east, following intense Ukrainian defense in the areas surrounding Kyiv and Russian supply issues. Kyiv had for weeks braced for an attack of Russian forces, pushing embassies to close their operations there. 
Ukraine’s Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal, speaking at a press conference in Washington on Friday, also called on ambassadors from all countries, including the United States, to return to their embassies in Kyiv. 
The White House and State Department declined to comment Saturday potential visit from top US officials Blinken and Austin. CNN has reached out to the US Department of Defense for comment. 
Last week, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said that if an administration official were to visit Ukraine, the White House would not publicly disclose that information ahead of the time, citing security concerns. 
Link Copied! 
It's 3 a.m. in Kyiv. Here's what you need to know 
Firefighters work to extinguish a fire on a warehouse amid Russian bombardments in Kharkiv, Ukraine, on Saturday, April 23. 
(Felipe Dana/AP) 
In the early morning hours on Sunday in Ukraine, these are the latest developments in the war: 
Ukraine claims Mariupol citizens forcibly deported to Far East region of Russia: Ukraine officials claimed on Saturday that Russia has forcibly deported Mariupol citizens to Primorsky Krai in Russia’s Far East region. 
“Russia sent forcibly deported citizens of Ukraine from Mariupol to the Primorsky Krai - 8,000 kilometers from the homeland,” said Lyudmyla Denisova, the Ukrainian Parliament Commissioner for Human Rights, in a Telegram post. 
According to Denisova, volunteers told her a train arrived in the city of Nakhodka on April 21 with 308 Ukrainians from Mariupol, including mothers with young children, people with disabilities and students. 
8 dead in Russian missile strikes in Southern Ukraine, Odesa mayor says: Odesa Mayor Hennadii Trukhanov said in a statement on Telegram a total of eight people were killed in the port city after Russian missile strikes. 
“Behind my back is what Russians call a military target,” he said. “A residential building that they for some reason call a military object. Eight people died. A three-month-old child is among them. She hadn’t seen life yet. You [Russians] are monsters, burn in hell.” 
In a separate statement, local authorities said rescue work was still underway in a damaged residential building. A total of 86 people were been evacuated, and rubble was still being dismantled. 
Leaders who plan to visit Ukraine “should not come with empty hands,” Zelensky says: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Saturday that leaders who plan to visit Ukraine “should not come here with empty hands.” 
Zelensky made the comments when asked about what he expects from US Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin’s visit to Kyiv on Sunday. 
Ukrainian intelligence says Russia plans to conscript Ukrainian civilians from occupied regions: Ukrainian intelligence has accused Russia of planning to conscript Ukrainian civilians from the occupied regions of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia, according to a Saturday UK military intelligence update. 
“This would follow similar prior conscription practices in the Russian-occupied Donbas and Crimea,” the statement read. 
Link Copied! 
Ukrainian intelligence: Russia plans to conscript Ukrainian civilians from occupied regions 
From CNN's Hira Humayun 
Ukrainian intelligence has accused Russia of planning to conscript Ukrainian civilians from the occupied regions of Kherson and Zaporizhzhia, according to a Saturday UK military intelligence update. 
The statement said under Article 51 of the Fourth Geneva Convention, occupying powers cannot compel “protected persons” – which, in this context, includes civilians in occupied territories – to serve in its “armed or auxiliary forces.” Additionally, pressure or propaganda aiming to secure volunteers to enlist is not allowed. 
“Any enlistment of Ukrainian civilians into the Russian armed forces, even if presented by Russia as being voluntary or military service in accordance with Russian law, would constitute a violation of Article 51 of the Fourth Geneva Convention,” the UK Ministry of Defense statement said. 
Link Copied! 
Leaders who plan to visit Ukraine "should not come with empty hands," Zelensky says 
From CNN's Mohammed Tawfeeq in Atlanta 
Ukrainian President, Volodymyr Zelensky, holds a press conference at the Independence Square metro station in Kyiv, on Saturday, April 23. 
(Metin Aktas/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said on Saturday that leaders who plan to visit Ukraine “should not come here with empty hands.” Zelensky made the comments when asked about what he expects from US Secretary of State Antony Blinken’s and US Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin’s visit to Kyiv on Sunday. 
“Why is it important for leaders to come to us? I will give you a pragmatic answer; because they should not come here with empty hands. We are waiting not just for presents or cakes; we are expecting specific things and specific weapons,” Zelensky said during a presser in Kyiv. “That’s why we will be able to get an agreement with the United States or some part of the package of armament which we agreed before. This is why I believe this is a positive signal,” he added. 
“The same about the leaders of other countries; they know we discussed these things in quietness, as our diplomats say, it’s quiet diplomacy. I don’t like very much, but it exists,” Zelensky said. 
“We will be happy to see you, but please bring to us the assistance which we discussed, which you have or which you have the opportunity to bring,” Zelensky said. He added, “that’s why the visit from the US is very important.” 
Link Copied! 
8 dead in Russian missile strikes in Southern Ukraine, Odesa mayor says 
From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva in Lviv 
People react as they leave a multi-store building in Odesa after Russian troops strike, on Saturday, April 23. 
(Oleksandr Gimanov/AFP/Getty Images) 
Odesa Mayor Hennadii Trukhanov said in a statement on Telegram a total of eight people were killed in the port city after Russian missile strikes. 
In a separate statement, local authorities said rescue work was still underway in a damaged residential building. A total of 86 people were been evacuated, and rubble was still being dismantled. 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in a news conference 18 or 20 people had been injured in the strike. 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine claims Mariupol citizens forcibly deported to Far East region of Russia 
From CNN's Hande Atay Alam and Nathan Hodge 
Ukraine officials claimed on Saturday that Russia has forcibly deported Mariupol citizens to Primorsky Krai in Russia’s Far East region. 
According to Denisova, volunteers told her a train arrived in the city of Nakhodka on April 21 with 308 Ukrainians from Mariupol, including mothers with young children, people with disabilities and students. 
Denisova also included photos showing the Ukrainian citizens’ arrival at the train station in her Telegram post. 
Petro Andriushchenko, an adviser to Mariupol’s mayor, also claimed on April 21, “the Russians brought 308 deported Mariupol residents to Vladivostok.” 
The Mariopul mayor’s official telegram post said 90 out of 308 deported residents were children. 
“People were accommodated in schools and dormitories. Later it is planned to send them to different settlements of the Primorsky Krai,” the mayor’s Telegram post reads. 
Photo and videos published on a Russian local news portal in Vladivostok, vl.com, also showed evacuees from Mariupol arriving by train. 
Denisova also claimed Mariupol residents were sent by bus to temporary accommodation in the city of Wrangel and were expected to receive new documents that will allow them to work in Russia. 
“The occupying country of Russia grossly violates the provisions of Article 49 of the Geneva Convention relative to the Protection of Civilian Persons in Time of War, which prohibits the forced relocation or deportation of persons from the occupied territories,” Denisova added in her Telegram post. 
Link Copied! 
It's 11 p.m. in Ukraine. Catch up on today's developments here 
Worshippers attend a service marking Orthodox Easter at Saints Peter and Paul Garrison Church, in Lviv, on Saturday, April 23. Ukrainian authorities urged those celebrating Orthodox Easter to follow religious services online and to respect curfews amid fighting with Russian troops despite a holiday that usually attracts crowds. 
(Yuriy Dyachyshyn/AFP/Getty Images) 
Russia’s military has shown no signs of stopping during the Orthodox Easter weekend in Ukraine. Here’s what you need to know. 
Odesa strikes: Five civilians died — including an infant — and 18 were wounded as Russian missile strikes hit the southwestern port city of Odesa, according to a senior Ukrainian official. A city council deputy called the strikes “Easter gifts from Putin.” 
Mariupol evacuations: The evacuation of civilians from the besieged southeastern Ukrainian port city of Mariupol has been “thwarted” by the Russian military, an adviser to the city’s mayor said. 
“About 200 Mariupol residents were going to leave, but when they arrived at the assembly point, the [Russian] military told them to disperse because ‘there will be shelling now’,” according to the Ukrainian parliament’s Twitter account. 
Easter warnings: The Ukrainian government announced new curfews for Easter weekend as authorities cautioned residents about the potential for increased Russian military activity during holiday celebrations. Officials in some regions urged people to attend virtual services. 
Top US officials to Kyiv: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin will visit the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv tomorrow. Zelensky made the remarks during a press conference in a Kyiv subway station, where he also reiterated his willingness to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
More sanctions?: Europe is discussing a sixth round of sanctions on Russia, including a hit on Russia’s energy market, officials say. European Commissioner for Trade Valdis Dombrovskis said one of the issues under consideration concerns an oil embargo. 
Link Copied! 
What's it like being the family of Alexey Navalny? 
From CNN's Foren Clark 
Russian opposition activist Alexei Navalny (R), his daughter Dasha (2R), son Zakhar (2L) and wife Yulia (L) arrive at a polling station during to the Moscow city Duma elections in Moscow on September 8, 2019. 
(Vasily Maximov/AFP/Getty Images) 
The family of Russian dissident Alexey Navalny has always supported his efforts to combat Russian President Vladimir Putin’s corrupt leadership. Navalny’s wife, Yulia Navalnaya, and their children, Dasha and Zakhar, have had to watch Navalny face arrests, violence, and even an attack on his own life. 
In August 2020, Navalny’s family got the call that he had taken ill on a flight from Siberia to Moscow and was undergoing treatment. 
“To have your dad, an opposition leader, being poisoned by we don’t know what, we don’t know how, we don’t know when, and just be in a random hospital, it was just … it was surreal, it was literally like a book,” Dasha said. 
Yulia Navalnaya quickly made her way to the hospital where Navalny was being treated and began putting public and international pressure on the Russian government to allow him to be medically evacuated to Germany. 
She described the fear she had when she first arrived at the hospital and was physically barred from seeing her husband. “I thought since he was all alone, the [Federal Security Service] and Putin would make the most of the situation and try to make sure he’s dead.” 
Her efforts to secure his release, which included sending a personal letter to Putin himself, eventually paid off – and may have saved Navalny’s life. His sudden illness was later tied to exposure to the nerve agent Novichok. 
After a long recovery in Germany, Navalny announced that he would return to Russia in January 2020. His family once again faced the possibility of losing him, this time to arrest and detainment, but they understood that Navalny’s mission was more important than their worry. 
“There was a point a year ago, where my dad was almost not there for my high school graduation. He was in jail once again and, like, the whole day I was just thinking about how [he] would’ve been proud to see me walk on the stage and get my certificate. And he wouldn’t get that option, because he was in jail for doing the right thing,” Dasha said before her father made his return to Russia. “I know that my dad misses Russia, even though it’s scary to go back. And if he didn’t go back, I would say you need to go back and fight. It’s something worth fighting for.” 
Navalny was immediately arrested after his plane landed in Moscow, and he has been a prisoner ever since. In March, he was sentenced to another nine years in jail after being convicted on fraud charges, according to the Russian-owned state news agency TASS. 
The director of the CNN film “Navalny,” Daniel Roher, who spent time with the entire family while following Navalny’s story for the film, described how their support allows Navalny to continue with his mission. 
“It is like the entire family has this iron spine, their character is extraordinary, and I think … the foundation for his strength is the strength of his extraordinary wife Yulia and their children,” Roher said. “Everyone believes in what he’s doing, and everyone supports the sacrifice that he’s making. 
Although they have faced violence and harassment of their own, Navalny’s family continues to support his anti-corruption message, and they express their pride in his accomplishments. 
Dasha wrote on Instagram: “I am very proud of my dad, and I am glad that his incredible story of the last few years will be told.” 
Tune in tomorrow at 9 p.m. ET to watch the CNN Film “Navalny” on CNN. 
Link Copied! 
Zelensky says US secretary of state and defense secretary will visit Kyiv on Sunday 
From CNN's Mohammed Tawfeeq and Jonny Hallam in Atlanta 
Secretary of State Antony Blinken, and Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin pose for a group photograph with Australian Minister of Defense Peter Dutton and Australian Foreign Minister Marise Payne at the State Department in Washington, Thursday, Sept. 16, 2021. 
(Andrew Harnik/Pool/AP) 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that US Secretary of State Antony Blinken and US Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin will visit the Ukrainian capital of Kyiv tomorrow. 
“I don’t think this is a secret that people from the US are coming to us tomorrow, State Secretary Mr. Blinken and the defense secretary (Lloyd Austin) who are coming to us,” Zelensky said at a press conference held in an underground subway station in Kyiv. 
Zelensky also said, “we will be expecting, when the security will allow, the President of the United States to come and to talk to us.” 
CNN has reached out to the US Department of Defense and Department of State for comment. The White House declined to comment on the potential trip. 
US President Joe Biden said last week that he was still working with his team to determine whether he should dispatch a senior member of his administration to Ukraine. 
On Sunday, many Ukrainians will observe Easter, in accordance with the Julian calendar. 
UK Prime Minister Boris Johnson visited Zelensky in Kyiv on April 9. 
Link Copied! 
A Q&A with Navalny's right-hand woman 
From CNN's Janelle Davis 
Video Ad Feedback 
1aed4eab-31de-4ca1-a8ca-5805841da851.mp4 
04:23 - Source: cnn 
CNN spoke with Maria Pevchikh, the head of the investigative department for Alexey Navalny’s Anti-Corruption Foundation. She’s also an executive producer of CNN’s film “Navalny.” 
Here’s what she said: 
Q: What can Navalny’s story tell us about Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Russian regime, as we watch this war that they started? 
A: It’s a pretty good prequel. It explains a lot, actually. This film gives a lot of context and it explains how we ended up at this point in time and where Putin is invading countries and killing people, and kind of gets away with it. 
Q: You’ve been keeping the Anti-Corruption Foundation running since Navalny was arrested. Why is it important to keep this work going? 
A: It’s not only me. There are dozens of other people who work with us. 
It’s a matter of principle for us just continue our work despite the fact that Alexey is in prison. This is exactly what Putin wanted to happen. Putin wanted to imprison Navalny and destroy his work – stop our investigations, stop our political work, stop everything. For us, it is a matter of principle to show Vladimir Putin and whoever is responsible for this that this is not going to work. That we’re going to continue our work and we’re going to work harder and more than we did before. And we intend to keep going as long as it takes. 
Q: As the head of investigations at this foundation, what have you uncovered recently? 
A: This month, we’ve done two. There was an investigation that we did about the yacht Scheherazade. It is parked somewhere in Italy, and it has no owner. I think it is the 11th or 12th most expensive yacht in the world. No one knows to whom it belongs to. In our investigation, we proved that it belongs to Vladimir Putin. 
And last week, we published an investigation about Valery Gergiev, a Russian conductor and classical musician, who is very famous and a frequent guest at places like the Metropolitan Opera and Grand Opera. He is not only a very famous musician, but a prominent supporter of Putin and Putin’s war. So, we did a big investigation into how Valery Gergiev gets paid for publicly whitewashing Putin abroad. 
Q: Navalny was recently sentenced to more time in prison. What do you think the future holds for him? Will he be able to get out of this prison? 
A: I think that those numbers mean nothing. He can be sentenced to nine years to 99 years to 900 years. It is virtually meaningless. 
Navalny’s case is purely political. Vladimir Putin decided to throw him into jail indefinitely. So as many people say, Navalny’s sentence is essentially a life sentence. The question is whose life it will be? I’m pretty sure that Navalny is going to stay in prison probably until Putin leaves the office, until Putin is removed from power. Our mission is to make sure that this day comes as quickly as possible and Alexey is out of prison as soon as possible. 
Q: We learn in this documentary what Navalny’s vision is for Russia, what he imagined the future will be. Do you expect that Russia will ever come to fruition? 
A: Absolutely. That’s the plan. That’s what we are working on for many years. It would be strange if we did something for a decade that we didn’t believe in and we didn’t believe that it was possible. 
I am convinced that the so-called “beautiful Russia of the future” – this is how Alexey refers to it – it is indeed possible. It is achievable and attainable, and yes, it will take a lot of effort and a lot of work to make sure that it materializes but there are so many people, so many Russians who are willing to do this work, who are willing to risk their life, their careers, their everything, just to make sure that Russia one day becomes a free and democratic country. 
Tune in tomorrow at 9 p.m. ET to watch the CNN Film “Navalny” on CNN. 
Link Copied! 
Zelensky: Ukraine will stop negotiations if Russia kills people in Mariupol and organizes "pseudo" referendums 
From CNN's Radina Gigova and Adrienne Vogt 
Russian military vehicles move in an area controlled by Russian-backed separatist forces in Mariupol, on Saturday, April 23. 
(Alexei Alexandrov/AP) 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Saturday that if Ukrainians in the besieged city of Mariupol are killed by Russian forces, and if Russia organizes “pseudo” referendums in occupied territories, Ukraine will stop negotiations with the Russian side. 
Zelensky also reiterated his willingness to meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin, saying “I don’t have a right to be afraid” as the Ukrainian people have shown they are not afraid of the Russian military. 
“As for the topic of the meeting with the president of Russia, yes, I would like to start to finalize the war. There is a diplomatic way, and there is the military way. So any healthy and sane person always chooses diplomatic way, because he or she knows even if it’s hard, it may stop the losses of thousands, of tens of thousands. And with such neighbors, hundreds of thousands and maybe millions of victims,” he said, via translated remarks, while holding a press conference in an underground subway station. 
While Zelensky said he’s “not afraid” to meet with Putin, it’s difficult to trust what Russia says. 
“There is no trust to Russia. Those are not synonyms, those are antonyms: Russia and trust. Because they’re just saying something, and their words do not coincide with actions,” he said. 
Zelensky said possible future negotiations in Turkey depend on Putin, and the Ukranian president reiterated his willingness to participate in talks. 
Zelensky also said Kyiv is “in permanent contact” with Ukrainians in Mariupol but couldn’t share details about the messaging. “These are our people and our town,” he said. 
Ukraine claims strike on command post kills 2 Russian generals, according to military intelligence service 
From CNN's Nathan Hodge and Kostan Nechyporenko 
The Chief Intelligence Directorate of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine issued a statement Saturday claiming that a strike on a Russian command post in the southern Kherson region killed two Russia generals. 
“On April 22, 2022, the Armed Forces of Ukraine struck a devastating blow at a forward command post of the 49th Combined Arms Army of Russian occupation troops located a short distance from the battle line in the Kherson region,” the statement said. “The result: The Field Control Point of the 49th Combined Arms Army was destroyed. Two occupier generals were eliminated, and one was seriously wounded and evacuated in critical condition.” 
CNN could not immediately verify that claim or that casualties may have been inflicted on that unit. Several Russian generals have been killed in Ukraine, with military observers and analysts saying that communication issues and a top-down command style have forced Russia’s top officers to move forward to resolve tactical issues. 
The Russian defense ministry did not immediately respond to a request for​ comment. 
Link Copied! 
"I want to see the sun": Women and children in Azovstal steelworks bunker for months as Mariupol besieged 
From CNN's Sarah Diab 
A woman holding a child speaks as they take shelter in a bunker of the Azovstal steelworks in Mariupol, Ukraine in this image released on April 23. A portion of this photo has been blurred by CNN to protect identity. 
(Azov Battalion/Reuters) 
For women and children stuck in the bunker of the Azovstal steelworks, daylight is a rarity. 
“I want to get out of here and see the sun. We’ve been here for two months now and I want to see the sun,” said one boy. 
As the barrage of Mariupol continues, the plant is among the last significant holdouts of Ukrainian forces in the city and is sheltering hundreds of soldiers and civilians. 
“Because they switch the lights on and off here. When they rebuild our houses we can live in peace. Let Ukraine win this war because Ukraine is our dear home,” he added. 
Some background: Ukrainian officials have said more than 100,000 people still remain in Mariupol. The Russian government claims to control the strategic port, but Ukrainian fighters remain holding out in the city’s massive Azovstal steelworks. 
On Friday, Russian troops also continued to launch air strikes on Mariupol and ​restrict Ukrainian units in the area of the Azovstal plant. 
The situation at the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol is “close to a catastrophe,” Yuriy Ryzhenkov, the CEO of the company that owns the plant, told CNN on Thursday. 
“When the war started we had stocked quite a good stocks of food and water in the bomb shelters and the facilities at the plant so for some period of time the civilians, they were able to use it and basically survive on that. Unfortunately all the things, they tend to run out, especially the food and daily necessities. I think now it’s close to a catastrophe there,” Ryzhenkov, who runs Metinvest Holding, told CNN’s Julia Chatterly on the “First Move” podcast. 
Ryzhenkov said originally there had been enough supplies for two to three weeks but they were almost eight weeks into the blockade. He added that those still there “were not giving up.” 
Evacuation corridor “thwarted”: The evacuation of civilians from the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol has been “thwarted” by the Russian military, an adviser to the mayor of Mariupol said on his official Telegram account Saturday. 
At 11 a.m. local time (4 a.m. ET) Saturday, at least 200 residents had gathered near a shopping center in Mariupol, waiting to be evacuated to Zaporizhzhia. But “instead of the buses promised by the Russian side, the Russian military approached the Mariupol residents and ordered them to leave because ‘there will be shelling now,’” Petro Andriushchenko said. 
Link Copied! 
"We don't realize how strong we actually are": How Alexey Navalny became Russia's opposition leader 
From CNN's Paul LeBlanc 
Video Ad Feedback 
f6d5de58-3e7e-4a5c-afa3-952e83008412.mp4 
03:14 - Source: cnn 
Russian opposition leader. Anti-corruption campaigner. Assassination attempt survivor. Prisoner. 
And with the eyes of the world now on Russian President Vladimir Putin amid his brutal invasion of Ukraine, Navalny’s message of resistance is finding new weight inside and outside of Russia, even as he remains behind bars. 
“The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is for good people to do nothing,” he says, reprising the famous quote of unknown origin, in the new CNN film “Navalny,” which premieres this Sunday, April 24, at 9 p.m. ET on CNN. “So don’t be inactive.” 
Here’s what you need to know about Navalny’s political rise, attempted assassination and future in Russia: 
Rise to prominence Navalny first gained visibility in 2008, when he started blogging about alleged corruption within Russian state-run companies. By 2011, he had emerged as one of the leaders of the massive protests that had broken out after allegations of fraud in parliamentary elections. 
“Those who have gathered here can kick these thieved ass***** out of the Kremlin tomorrow,” Navalny said at one 2011 protest. 
He posted his first YouTube video, a step-by-step instruction guide showing how to build an “agitation cube,” a boxlike tent structure with his image emblazoned on the side, in July 2013. The clip marked the start of the Russian dissident’s campaign to be elected Moscow mayor, and the humble beginning of his YouTube revolution. 
But his movement was blunted when he was convicted on embezzlement charges, just as he was preparing to run for mayor. Navalny has denied the charges and called them politically motivated. A retrial in 2017 barred him from running for public office — this time for president against Putin. 
While Navalny is most well known as an activist, it’s his investigations that have been the biggest thorn in the side of some of Russia’s powerful people. His videos about the apparent unexplained wealth of top government officials have particularly raised the ire of the Kremlin. 
One video about former Russian Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev drew more than 35 million views on YouTube. 
But with increased results came increased risks. In March 2017, that video lit a spark under the biggest anti-government protests Russia had seen in years. Thousands joined rallies in almost 100 cities across Russia. Navalny himself was arrested and jailed for 15 days. 
The following month, he was splashed with an antiseptic green dye, damaging his vision in one eye. 
“Listen, I’ve got something very obvious to tell you. You’re not allowed to give up. If they decide to kill me, it means that we are incredibly strong,” Navalny said to his supporters in the CNN film. 
“We need to utilize this power, to not give up, to remember we are a huge power that is being oppressed by these bad dudes. We don’t realize how strong we actually are,” he continued. 
Poisoning and recovery By 2020, there were signs that the ground was shifting beneath Navalny’s opposition movement. 
The Kremlin had taken on a more publicly confrontational posture toward its chief critic, culminating in accusations of a poisoning attempt in August of that year. 
Navalny had started feeling unwell on a return flight to Moscow from the Siberian city of Tomsk. Loud groaning can be heard in video footage apparently recorded on the flight he took. More video apparently recorded through the airplane window showed an immobile man being taken by wheeled stretcher to a waiting ambulance. 
Navalny was treated at a Berlin hospital, and the German government later concluded he had been poisoned with a chemical nerve agent from the Novichok group. 
A joint investigation by CNN and the group Bellingcat implicated the Russian Security Service (FSB) in Navalny’s poisoning, piecing together how an elite unit at the agency had followed Navalny’s team throughout a trip to Siberia, when Navalny fell ill from exposure to Novichok. 
The investigation also found that this unit, which included chemical weapons experts, had followed Navalny on more than 30 trips to and from Moscow since 2017. Russia denies involvement in Navalny’s poisoning. Putin himself said in December that if Russian security services had wanted to kill Navalny, they “would have finished” the job. 
Nevertheless, several Western officials and Navalny himself have openly blamed the Kremlin. 
“It’s impossible to believe it. It’s kind of stupid that the whole idea of poisoning with a chemical weapon, what the f**k?” Navalny says in the new CNN film. “This is why this is so smart, because even reasonable people they refuse to believe like, what? Come on … poisoned? Seriously?” 
News that Navalny had fallen gravely ill sent a fresh shock wave through Russian society, raising worrying parallels with some of the more brazen political killings in Russia’s recent past. 
Western governments, independent researchers and Russia watchers have noted a consistent pattern of Russian state involvement in assassinations both inside Russia and abroad. 
Tune in tomorrow at 9 p.m. ET to watch the CNN Film “Navalny” on CNN. 
Link Copied! 
Mariupol evacuation "thwarted" by Russian military, Ukrainian city official says 
From CNN's Nathan Hodge in Lviv and Radina Gigova in London 
The evacuation of civilians from the besieged Ukrainian city of Mariupol has been “thwarted” by the Russian military, an adviser to the mayor of Mariupol said on his official Telegram account Saturday. 
At 11 a.m. local time (4 a.m. ET) Saturday, at least 200 residents had gathered near a shopping center in Mariupol, waiting to be evacuated to Zaporizhzhia. But “instead of the buses promised by the Russian side, the Russian military approached the Mariupol residents and ordered them to leave because ‘there will be shelling now,’” Petro Andriushchenko said. 
The Russian military brought buses to another location about 200 meters away from the agreed evacuation point, and when residents had already been loaded on the buses, they were told they’ll be evacuated to the city of Dokuchaevsk, “i.e. in the occupied territories,” Andriushchenko said. 
“People were not given the right to leave the bus. When asked why, the answer was ‘nationalists fired on the evacuation point.’ That is another lie,” Andriushchenko said. 
“Yes, once again, the Russians disrupted the evacuation. Brazenly using the efforts of Mariupol residents to return home and the honesty of the Ukrainian army in a ceasefire to organize their own plans,” he added. 
The Ukrainian parliament also tweeted that the evacuation was “disrupted.” 
“About 200 Mariupol residents were going to leave, but when they arrived at the assembly point, the [Russian] military told them to disperse because ‘there will be shelling now’,” according to the parliament’s official account. 
Link Copied! 
At least 5 reported killed in missile strikes on southern Ukrainian city of Odesa, according to official 
From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva and Nathan Hodge in Lviv 
A damaged building in Odesa after a reported missile strike, on Saturday, April 23. 
(Oleksandr Gimanov/AFP/Getty Images) 
Five civilians died and 18 were wounded in Russian missile strikes on the southern port city of Odesa, according to a senior Ukrainian official, as another official denounced them as “Easter gifts from Putin.” 
“Five Ukrainian citizens were killed and 18 wounded,” Andriy Yermak, the head of the Office of the President of Ukraine, said in a statement. “These are only those who were found. And most likely, there will be more.” 
Yermak said one of the dead was a 3-month-old baby, adding: “A child who had to celebrate his first Easter with his parents. Nothing is sacred. Absolutely. Evil will be punished.” 
Many Ukrainians celebrate Easter according to the Julian calendar, with Easter Sunday falling this year on April 24. 
Anton Gerashchenko, an adviser to the minister of internal affairs of Ukraine, said Russian forces launched at least six cruise missiles at Odesa. 
“City residents heard the blasts in different districts of the city. These were the rockets strikes as well as the work of our air-defense system,” he said. 
Gerashchenko added that at least one missile had landed and exploded, residential buildings were hit and one person was burned inside their car in the yard of one of the buildings. 
In a statement on Telegram, Odesa City Council Deputy Petro Obukhov called the missile strikes “Easter gifts from Putin.” 
​Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba condemned the strikes, saying, “The only aim of Russian missile strikes on Odesa is terror. Russia must be designated a state sponsor of terrorism and treated accordingly. No business, no contacts, no cultural projects. We need a wall between civilization and barbarians striking peaceful cities with missiles.” 
Ukrainian officials have warned of potential Russian attacks during Easter holiday observances in Ukraine. Russian President Vladimir Putin recently claimed Russian forces have “liberated” the Azov Sea port of Mariupol, although Ukrainian defenders are holding out in a massive steel works in the city. 
Ukraine’s Air Command South said in a separate statement that missiles also struck a military facility and were launched by Russian bombers: 
“Today … the air defense group of the South Air Command conducted combat operations to destroy enemy cruise missiles launched by Russia’s TU-95 strategic aircraft from the Caspian Sea,” the statement said. “During the engagement, warriors of anti-aircraft missile units destroyed two enemy cruise missiles (preliminary X555 or X101), which struck the city of Odesa and two operational-tactical level UAVs, which presumably corrected the trajectory of cruise missiles and placed active obstacles to the air-defense system of the Armed Forces of Ukraine.” 
Link Copied! 
Navalny continues to speak out behind bars 
From CNN's Paul LeBlanc 
While in prison, Kremlin critic Alexey Navalny used social media to denounce the Russian invasion of Ukraine, advocating for anti-war protests across the country as “the backbone of the movement against war and death,” according to Reuters. 
In a tweet, Navalny said: “I am very grateful to everyone for their support. And, guys, I want to say: the best support for me and other political prisoners is not sympathy and kind words, but actions. Any activity against the deceitful and thievish Putin’s regime. Any opposition to these war criminals.” 
Thousands in Russia have been detained for anti-war demonstrations in the weeks since, including in Moscow and St. Petersburg. 
One young woman CNN met on the margins of the first night of protest last month was near tears explaining that she loves Russia but not her leader, and so has concluded she must leave the country. 
There is real frustration in that generation, but they are a minority — less than 10% of the nation. 
​Indeed, the latest polling by the Russian Public Opinion Research Center (VCIOM), a state-owned but nevertheless internationally respected organization, found that 68% of people say they support the decision to carry out the “special military operation,” which Putin had announced alongside false accusations of Nazism and genocide in Ukraine; 22% oppose it and 10% had difficulty answering. 
It is a sobering assessment that when Putin puts his finger in the wind of public opinion, he can be reasonably sure it is blowing in the direction he instructed his state organs to set it. 
“Listen, I’ve got something very obvious to tell you. You’re not allowed to give up. If they decide to kill me, it means that we are incredibly strong,” Navalny said to his supporters in the CNN film airing Sunday. 
“We need to utilize this power, to not give up, to remember we are a huge power that is being oppressed by these bad dudes. We don’t realize how strong we actually are,” he said. 
Tune in tomorrow at 9 p.m. ET to watch the CNN Film “Navalny” on CNN. 
Link Copied! 
Russian strike hits gas pipe in Dnipropetrovsk region, according to regional head 
From CNN's Kostan Nechyporenko in Kyiv 
Valentyn Reznichenko, head of the Dnipropetrovsk regional military administration, said Saturday that a Russian strike hit a gas pipe on the outskirts of a village in the region. 
“We have an ‘arrival’ in the Dnieper district,” Reznichenko said on Telegram. “The rocket landed on the outskirts of a village and left a huge funnel more than 4 meters deep in the ground. A low-pressure gas pipe was damaged. Specialists are at work on the scene.” 
Rezhnichenko said there were no casualties. 
“The occupiers continue to target ‘strategic’ targets,” he said. “‘Demilitarize’ our fields and gardens.” 
Link Copied! 
Europe discussing sixth round of sanctions, including hit on Russian energy, EU Commission official says 
From CNN's Jennifer Hansler 
European Commissioner for Trade Valdis Dombrovskis speaks with the media in Washington on Thursday April 21. 
(Cheriss May/Bloomberg/Getty Images) 
Europe is discussing a sixth round of sanctions on Russia, including a hit on Russia’s energy market, a top official from the European Commission and Lithuania’s finance minister said on Friday. 
European Commissioner for Trade Valdis Dombrovskis said one of the issues under consideration concerns an oil embargo. There have been discussions about “smart sanctions” that might include tariffs rather than a full embargo at first. 
“So there may be some nuances, but this work is ongoing,” Dombrovskis told reporters in Washington, DC. 
In a separate interview with CNN in the US capital, Lithuanian Finance Minister Gintarė Skaistė said she discussed a possible next tranche of sanctions with US Deputy Treasury Secretary Wally Adeyemo. 
“We are always offering to include in the sanctions the energy sector, especially oil,” as well as “additional sanctions to the financial sector of Russia,” Skaistė said. 
Skaistė said the sanctions must be coordinated for them to have an impact. “If we won’t agree on the sanctions together, the United States with all Western allies, it won’t work,” she said. 
Dombrovskis said that “technically speaking, approval of sanctions can be very quick view, can be done in a matter of one or two days.” 
“The question here is basically is that sanctions require unanimity among member states, so those political discussions are ongoing in parallel, so it’s important to reach unanimous political agreement,” he said. 
Skaistė said it was too early to say when there will be agreement on that next round of sanctions. She noted that there is both a shorter-term and longer-term goal for the sanctions: to draw Russian President Vladimir Putin to the negotiating table and to weaken Russia’s economy so it is unable to reinforce its military. 
“If there will be no possibilities to reinforce their army, we would like to think that there will be no war in Europe,” she said. 
Dombrovskis said it is important that existing sanctions are actually enforced, noting they are working with EU member states as well as the broader international community. 
“It’s a fact that not all countries have joined those Western sanctions,” he said, noting that Beijing is “hedging its bets,” and they are trying to nudge China and other nations “to be closer to our approach to Russia.” 
Skaistė said they are also focused on helping Ukraine’s government survive in the shorter-term, and in the longer-term how to rebuild Ukraine more efficiently, which she believes “should be closely engaged with the process of Ukraine’s accession to European Union.” 
Both Skaistė and Dombrovskis expressed concern about Putin’s future targets if he is not decisively stopped in Ukraine. 
Skaistė told CNN that Russia is trying to impose its influence on neighboring countries, noting it’s “not the first time.” 
“Russian propaganda, certain authorities, representatives are not making a secret that Russia plans to go further and if we do not stop them in Ukraine, they will be invading other neighboring countries,” Dombrovskis said, calling it not only an attack on Ukraine but on European security more broadly. 
Asked if Europe would respond with the same unity if Moldova were attacked by Russia, Dombrovskis said they needed to focus on Ukraine right now, “because Putin will go as far as we will let him to go.” 
CNN’s Kylie Atwood contributed reporting to this post. 
Link Copied! 
Ukrainian government announces curfews for Easter weekend 
From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva in Lviv 
A boy paints an Easter egg in the traditional style during a lesson for children for the upcoming Easter holiday in Kyiv, Ukraine on April 22. 
(Gleb Garanich/Reuters) 
The Ukrainian government announced new curfews for Easter weekend amid warnings from authorities about the potential for increased Russian military activity during holiday celebrations. 
Many Ukrainians celebrate Easter according to the Julian calendar, with Easter Sunday falling this year on April 24. 
Kyrylo Tymoshenko, deputy head of the Ukrainian president’s office, announced the curfews in a statement on Saturday. Curfew hours will be in place from 7 p.m. local time Saturday until 5 a.m. local time Sunday in Donetsk, Luhansk, Kharkiv, Zaporizhzhia, Mykolaiv and Kherson regions, all of which have seen active fighting. 
In other regions of Ukraine, including the capital of Kyiv, curfew will run from 11 p.m. local time on Saturday until Sunday at 5 a.m. 
Earlier this week, officials in Luhansk and Sumy regions urged residents to attend virtual services online, saying that possible Russian “provocations” could happen and that many churches have been destroyed as well. 
Link Copied! 
Russian missile strike hits Odesa, according to city 
From CNN's Olga Voitovych in Lviv 
A Russian missile strike hit Ukraine’s southern port city of Odesa, the city’s official Telegram channel said Saturday. 
“A missile strike was launched in Odesa,” the statement said. “Infrastructure facilities were hit. Do not share photos and videos, do not help the enemy. The information is being clarified.” 
The purported strike comes as top Russian military officials revealed that the goal of the invasion of Ukraine is to take “full control” over southern Ukraine as well as the eastern Donbas region. 
Maj. Gen. Rustam Minnekaev, the acting commander of Russia’s Central Military District, said that control over Ukraine’s south would give Russian forces access to Transnistria — a separatist statelet in Moldova, where a contingent of Russian forces has been stationed since the early 1990s — according to TASS, a Russian state news agency. 
Link Copied! 
How to watch the CNN film "Navalny" 
From CNN's Foren Clark and Janelle Davis 
What is it about? 
The CNN film “Navalny” follows Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who was poisoned in August 2020 with a nerve agent during a flight to Moscow. The film paints an intimate portrait of one of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s fiercest critics and takes viewers inside the harrowing search for answers following his poisoning. 
Sunday, April 24, at 9 p.m. ET on CNN 
How long is the film? 
98 minutes 
Navalny is a Russian opposition leader, Kremlin critic and activist. He has been a prominent organizer of street protests and has exposed corruption in the Russian government on social media. 
He created the Anti-Corruption Foundation, a nonprofit organization that investigates corruption among high-ranking Russian government officials. 
In March, Navalny was sentenced to nine years in a maximum-security jail, according to the Russian state-owned news agency TASS, after being convicted on fraud charges over allegations that he stole from his Anti-Corruption Foundation. The Russian state-owned news agency RIA reported that Navalny will appeal the guilty verdict, according to his lawyer. 
“I want audiences to be reminded that bad guys win if people stop caring and stop paying attention, whether it be authoritarians rising in Brazil, Hungary, Turkey, Russia, China — or the US,” said Roher. “Alexey wants to remind us that we cannot be inactive. I want people to focus on that when they think about Alexey.” 
Link Copied! 
It's 3 p.m. in Kyiv. Here's what you need to know 
From CNN staff 
Firefighters work to extinguish a fire at a shop following a Russian bombardment in Kharkiv, Ukraine on Friday April 22. 
(Felipe Dana/AP) 
Russian forces are continuing their assault across the southern and eastern regions of Ukraine, with Ukrainian officials reporting heavy shelling and civilian casualties in cities, including Kharkiv, Popasna and Mykolaiv. 
Meanwhile, a Ukrainian minister announced an evacuation corridor from the besieged southern port city of Mariupol would open, following a brief halt earlier because of security concerns. 
Here are the latest developments: 
Russia takes small towns but makes “no major gains,” say UK officials: Russia has captured dozens of small towns and settlements in its assault on the eastern Donbas region, and Ukrainian officials describe continued heavy fighting throughout Donetsk and Luhansk there. A situation report by the UK’s Ministry of Defense, however, said on Saturday that Russian forces had made “no major gains” in the past 24 hours, in the face of Ukrainian counterattacks. Ukrainian air and sea defenses have also been able to stop the progress of Russian air and maritime forces, the ministry added in a post on social media. 
New plans for evacuations from Mariupol: Ukrainian Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk announced an evacuation corridor would open on Saturday, with a focus on moving “women, children and the elderly” from Mariupol to safer areas. In a statement on Telegram, Vereshchuk warned of Russian traps, where troops might open a “parallel corridor” and take residents into Russian-controlled territories instead. She urged residents to be vigilant and “not to follow any deceit and provocations” by the Russian side. 
Mykolaiv official announces curfew: After Russian forces continued shelling the city of Mykolaiv overnight, Vitaliy Kim, head of the regional military administration there, announced a new curfew of 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. ahead of local Easter services. The announcement comes a day after Hanna Zamazeeva, chief of Mykolaiv’s regional council, said that at least 20 people had been injured in the region in the past two days, amid attacks by Russian troops. 
Russian forces target civilian infrastructure: Residents in the northeastern city of Kharkiv and Popasna in the east have experienced sustained Russian bombardment. Russian troops fired 56 strikes on civilian infrastructure of Kharkiv and the region, killing two people and wounding 19, according to a Ukrainian military governor. In Popasna, two people also died as Russian forces targeted civilian homes and high-rise buildings, a Ukrainian regional official said. 
Link Copied! 
100 people from one California church opened their homes to Ukrainians in need 
From CNN's Catherine E. Shoichet, CNN 
Volunteer Silas Breen, left, from the Calvary Bible Institute, prays with David, from Ukraine, at San Diego Calvary's shelter for Ukrainians after crossing into the United States from Tijuana, Mexico on Friday, April 1. 
(Gregory Bull/AP) 
Phil Metzger flew home to California from Ukraine soon after the war broke out, devastated by what he saw. 
He’d been helping deliver medicine and evacuate families from danger, and the evangelical pastor knew he wanted the church he leads in suburban San Diego to do more to help those in need. 
He never expected the crisis would end up coming to them. 
“Who would ever imagine that a pipeline into America (for Ukrainians) would open through Mexico?” Metzger says. “That just caught us all completely off guard.” 
The church, Calvary San Diego, is in Chula Vista, California, about 8 miles north of the US-Mexico border. And as a growing number of Ukrainians were crossing the border from Tijuana to seek refuge in the United States, Metzger saw it as an opportunity to turn the church’s beliefs into action. 
Over the past six weeks, Metzger says thousands of Ukrainians crossing the border have spent at least a night inside his church, and hundreds more have stayed at the homes of church members. 
About 100 people connected to Calvary – including members and their families – opened up their homes to give the new arrivals a comfortable place to stay for a night or two. Many also volunteered to make airport runs, dropping off families who were continuing their journeys to meet up with relatives across the US. 
This story is part of a CNN series, “The Helpers,” which seeks to showcase people who are going the extra mile to help others and make their communities a better place. 
Street fights and shelling: Official in eastern Ukraine town says Russia targeting civilian homes 
From CNN's Julia Presniakova and Olga Voitovych in Lviv 
Two people have been killed in bombardments in the eastern town of Popasna, said head of the Luhansk regional military administration Serhiy Hayday, who accused Russian forces of shelling private homes. 
“Popasna suffered the most,” Hayday said of the town, which is in Ukraine’s eastern Luhansk region. 
“Yesterday, locals withstood five enemy artillery attacks. However, not everyone survived. In the evening, [a] 66-year-old Popasna resident died, his wife was injured. Also, one more person died as a result of shelling,” Hayday added. 
Separately, Hayday said about 30 people had been evacuated from the nearby city of Severodonetsk, including 15 bedridden patients. 
Settlements in Luhansk have come under heavy fire amid a broad Russian military push to take and hold more territory in the eastern Donbas region. 
Link Copied! 
Russian shelling hit southern city of Mykolaiv overnight, curfew announced ahead of Easter 
From CNN's Julia Presniakova, Katharina Krebs and Tim Lister 
A stray dog walks in the rubble of a destroyed terminal at the airport in Mykolaiv, Ukraine on April 22. 
(Anastasia Vlasova/Getty Images) 
Russian forces continued shelling the city of Mykolaiv overnight, a Ukrainian regional governor said Saturday, prompting officials to impose a curfew ahead of the Easter period. 
“There was shelling again tonight,” said Vitaliy Kim, head of Mykolaiv’s regional military administration. “They hit a cafe – no casualties, thank God.” 
Kim added that a curfew would be in effect from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. ahead of local Easter services. 
Some background: The announcement comes a day after Hanna Zamazeeva, chief of Mykolaiv’s regional council, said that at least 20 people had been injured in the region in the past two days, amid attacks by Russian troops. 
Ukrainian officials have warned of unspecified provocations by Russian forces over the Easter holiday, which is observed by many Ukrainians according to the Julian calendar, and have urged citizens in some regions to mark the holiday at home. 
The territory between Mykolaiv and Kherson to the southeast has seen intense fighting over the last three weeks as Ukrainian forces have launched counter-attacks. 
Mykolaiv itself has been regularly shelled by Russian forces but remains under Ukrainian control. 
Link Copied! 
Mariupol evacuations to resume Saturday, Ukraine official says, warning of Russian trap corridors 
From CNN's Anastasia Graham-Yooll 
Ukraine’s Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk announced an evacuation corridor on Saturday from the besieged city of Mariupol, following a brief halt earlier because of security concerns. 
“We are starting to gather around Port City shopping centre. If everything goes to plan the evacuations will commence at midday,” Vereshchuk said in a statement on Telegram. 
She warned, however, that Russian troops might open a “parallel corridor” for taking residents into Russian-controlled territories instead. She urged residents to be vigilant and “not to follow any deceit and provocations” by the Russian side. 
“Our corridors will take place solely in the following itinerary towards Zaporizhzhia: Manhush, Berdiansk, Tokmak, Orihiv,” Vereshchuk said. 
Some background: US and European officials have claimed that Russian forces have been forcibly deporting residents of Mariupol to separatist-held territory in Ukraine and, in some cases, even into Russia, after stripping them of phones and identification and screening them through a so-called “filtration” process. 
Ukraine has been evacuating civilians to the government-held city of Zaporizhzhia, but convoys must navigate through a series of Russian-held towns and military checkpoints. 
Ukrainian officials have said over 100,000 people still remain in the southern city of Mariupol. The Russian government claims to control the strategic port, but Ukrainian fighters remain holding out in the city’s massive Azovstal steel factory. 
Link Copied! 
Russia shelling civilian infrastructure in northeastern city of Kharkiv, Ukrainian official says 
From CNN's Julia Presniakova in Lviv 
Flames come out of an apartement in a residential building of the northern outskirts of Kharkiv following shelling on April 22. 
(Sergey Bobok/AFP/Getty Images) 
Russian forces have continued shelling the northeastern city of Kharkiv and the region, a Ukrainian military governor said on Saturday. 
“The Russian occupiers continue to fire on the civilian infrastructure of Kharkiv and the region,” said Oleh Syniehubov, head of the Kharkiv regional military administration. “During the day, the occupiers inflicted 56 strikes, as a result – 19 wounded, two people died.” 
Civilians in Kharkiv have endured heavy shelling for days. 
Russian forces continued to hold defensive lines around Izium, and claimed Ukrainian forces had carried out a successful counterattack to retake the settlements of Bezruky, Slatino and Prudianka and in the vicinity of Derhachi, Syniehubov added. CNN could not independently verify those claims. 
The military governor announced that a curfew in the region would be in effect from 7 p.m. to 5 a.m. local time. 
On April 17, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said that in the four days before, 18 people had been killed and 106 wounded by Russian bombardments in Kharkiv. 
Link Copied! 
Russia captures dozens of towns in the east, but UK officials say no major gains in last 24 hours 
From CNN's Katharina Krebs, Anna Chernova and Nathan Hodge 
Russia has captured dozens of small towns in its assault on the Donbas region, as Ukrainian officials describe continued heavy fighting throughout Donetsk and Luhansk. 
Russia had, in recent weeks, refocused its war efforts from the north and center to the east after a failure to circle in on the capital, Kyiv. 
Maj. Gen. Rustam Minnekaev, the acting commander of Russia’s Central Military District, said Russian forces were fighting to establish a land corridor through Ukrainian territory connecting Russia to Crimea, the peninsula it annexed in 2014, said according to TASS, a Russian state news agency. 
Olena Symonenko, an adviser to the Deputy Head of the Office of the President, said in televised remarks late Thursday that over the last 24 hour period, 42 more settlements had come under Russian control in the Donetsk region. 
The UK Ministry of Defense, however, said Saturday that Russian forces had made no major gains in the past 24 hours, in the face of Ukrainian counterattacks. 
Ukrainian air and sea defense have also been able to stop the progress of Russian air and maritime forces, the ministry added in a post on social media. 
Southern Ukraine: Russian forces at present have only partial control of southern Ukraine, with the Ukrainian government still in control of the key cities of Mykolaiv and Odesa and some Ukrainian forces holding out in a steel plant in the encircled port of Mariupol. 
“Despite their stated conquest of Mariupol, heavy fighting continues to take place frustrating Russian attempts to capture the city thus further slowing their desired progress in the Donbas,” the UK ministry said. 
Link Copied! 
Why India can buy Russian oil and still be friends with the US 
Analysis from CNN's Rhea Mogul and Simone McCarthy 
What a difference a few weeks make. Just last month, India was taking flak from the West for its relationship with Russia. 
Not only was the South Asian country refusing to condemn Moscow’s brutal assault on Ukraine, but its purchases of discounted Russian oil – said critics – were flying in the face of sanctions aimed at crippling the Kremlin’s finances. 
And the White House was making its displeasure clear, calling New Delhi “somewhat shaky” and speaking of its “disappointment.” 
Then all of a sudden, the West’s tune changed. When Biden met Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi this month, it was all diplomatic backslapping and soundbites about “a deep connection between our people” and “shared values.” Then on Friday, UK leader Boris Johnson flew into Delhi to talk up trade ties and pose for costumed photo ops, all while glossing over “differences” regarding Russia. 
Yet India’s stance on Ukraine remains largely the same. It is still buying cheap Russian oil, and it remains quiet on Moscow’s invasion. As recently as April 7, it abstained from a UN vote suspending Russia from the Human Rights Council. 
India, analysts say, just taught the West a masterclass in international diplomacy. 
Evacuation attempt from Mariupol planned for Saturday, Ukrainian official says 
From CNN's Nathan Hodge and Olga Voitovych in Lviv 
People fleeing fighting in the southern city of Mariupol meet with relatives and friends as they arrive in a small convoy after the opening of a humanitarian corridor, at a registration center for internally displaced people in Zaporizhzhia on April 21. 
(Ed Jones/AFP/Getty Images) 
An evacuation column from the besieged southeastern city of Mariupol is planned for Saturday, according to Petro Andriushchenko, adviser to the Mariupol mayor. 
“Today at 11:00 am (local), the evacuation of Mariupol residents to Zaporizhzhia will begin from the ‘Port City’ shopping mall,” he said on Telegram. “Departure of the column is scheduled at 12:00 on the route: Mariupol-Manhush-Berdiansk-Tokmak-Orikhiv-Zaporizhzhia.” 
Andriushchenko said private vehicles can join the route, but only women, children and the elderly will be able to board buses. 
Officials have said 100,000 civilians still require evacuation from the city, which has been battered by weeks of Russian bombardment. Ukrainian leaders have appealed for the Russian side to guarantee safe passage for civilians, but several previous evacuation attempts have failed due to shelling and danger on the routes. 
Link Copied! 
UK Defense Ministry: Russian forces make no major gains in the past 24 hours 
From CNN's Irene Nasser in Hong Kong 
Russian forces have made no major gains in the past 24 hours as they face Ukrainian counterattacks, the United Kingdom’s Defense Ministry said in an intelligence briefing on Saturday. 
Ukrainian air and sea defense have also been able to stop the progress of Russian air and maritime forces, the ministry added. 
“Despite their stated conquest of Mariupol, heavy fighting continues to take place frustrating Russian attempts to capture the city thus further slowing their desired progress in the Donbas,” the ministry said. 
Link Copied! 
As war rages on at home, these young disabled Ukrainian swimmers are stranded in Turkey 
From CNN's Jomana Karadsheh and Sana Noor Haq 
On February 17, a team of young disabled Ukrainian swimmers traveled to Turkey to nurture their ambitions of becoming elite professionals. 
The camp of seven budding athletes arrived with their three coaches in the town of Silivri, just outside of Istanbul, to take part in a two-week training program. 
The Ukrainian swim team sits down to eat a meal together at Kasımpaşa SK football club. 
While one young swimmer has traveled to Poland with his mother, they have been in Turkey for two months now, and many of their family members are still marooned in Ukraine. 
Team member Victoria Kharchenko, who has cerebral palsy, says her parents find comfort in the fact that she is safe. 
It's 7:15 a.m. in Kyiv. Here's what you need to know 
A Ukrainian person walks through the ruins of damaged buildings in Borodianka, on April 22, 2022. 
(Metin Aktas/Anadolu Agency/Getty Images) 
Heavy fighting is continuing in eastern Ukraine, with Russia now apparently eyeing the country’s southern regions in the second phase of its invasion. Meanwhile, international partners including the UN chief and Turkey are meeting with leaders from both countries in the coming days in hopes of de-escalating the conflict. 
Here are the latest developments: 
UN chief to meet Zelensky and Putin: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will meet Russian President Vladimir Putin in Moscow on Tuesday, after meeting the Russian foreign minister. Then on Thursday, Guterres is expected to meet Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky and the Ukrainian foreign minister. 
Toll of Moskva sinking: Russia’s Defense Ministry acknowledged casualties from the sinking of its warship the Moskva for the first time, saying Friday that at least one person was killed and another 27 are missing, according to Russian state media TASS. The Moskva, a guided-missile cruiser, sank on April 14, though the cause remains disputed. 
Fighting in the east: Ukrainian officials describe heavy fighting throughout the eastern regions of Donetsk and Luhansk, with “intensified” shelling in the southern Mykolaiv region. The Ukrainian military described Russian forces preparing for a renewed offensive by moving troops to consolidate occupied positions. Meanwhile, new drone footage taken Friday shows a number of homes destroyed in Moschun, a small village north of Kyiv that played a significant role in pushing back the Russian advance toward the capital. 
Russia’s campaign for “full control”: On Friday, Russia revealed its goal to establish “full control” over southern Ukraine as well as the eastern Donbas region in the second phase of its invasion, according to Russian state news agencies. It also aims to establish a land corridor connecting Russia to Crimea, the peninsula it annexed in 2014. 
Prosecutor’s probe: The Ukraine’s prosecutor’s office has launched an investigation into the alleged shelling of the town of Sloviansk by the Russian army with cluster munitions. Use of cluster munitions — which scatter submunitions over a wide area — is banned by many countries. Russia and Ukraine are not signatories to an international convention barring their use. 
Stalled talks: Turkey’s President is expecting to hold phone calls with his Russian and Ukrainian counterparts over the weekend with the hope of meeting them both in Istanbul to end the war. Turkey has the unique position of having maritime borders with both countries, as well as being a NATO member and one of Russia’s major trade partners. 
Daily life resuming: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Friday that normal life is returning to areas that have been freed from Russian control. Many settlements have been de-mined, and are now receiving humanitarian operations as well as medical and educational services, he said. 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine defense minister presents awards to soldiers in Moschun who helped drive back Russian advance 
From CNN's Hira Humayun 
Ukraine Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov met with and presented awards to soldiers in Moschun, a village north of Kyiv that experienced heavy destruction and played a significant role in driving back Russian forces. 
In a Facebook post early Friday, Reznikov said, “I met with the soldiers in Kyiv Region in the completely destroyed Moschun. Here the occupiers used all possible weapons, including missiles and aircrafts.” 
He said the village was on a list of settlements that Russian forces had to take to reach Kyiv. 
“Thanks to our soldiers, thanks to the courageous residents of the village, they were defeated,” Reznikov said, “Assassins and looters could not hold Moschun, could not move forward. Having suffered heavy losses, the occupiers were forced to flee to Belarus.” 
Some context: Moschun was vital to the Ukrainians repelling the Russian advance towards Kyiv. Ukrainian forces there, and nearby in Irpin and Bucha, are largely responsible for stalling the Russians, who were trying to advance towards Kyiv across the Irpin River. 
That’s why Bucha, Irpin and Moschun were subjected to weeks of military strikes and firefights. As a result, much of the destruction in the Kyiv region is in these three locations. 
In addition to the countless strikes in Moschun, Russian forces also tried to take the village through a ground assault. 
Drone video taken on Friday and obtained by CNN shows a number of homes destroyed in Moschun. 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine prime minister: Mariupol is the "biggest humanitarian catastrophe" of the century 
(CNN) 
Ukraine’s Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal called the situation in Mariupol the “biggest humanitarian catastrophe” since Russia’s invasion – and perhaps the worst catastrophe of the century, as the southeastern port city faces constant bombardment from Russian forces. 
Speaking at a press conference in Washington on Friday, Shmyhal said thousands of people had died in Mariupol, adding: “We will see the terrible atrocities when it will be liberated from Russians.” 
He said Russian troops are “absolutely destroying everything,” including shelters where civilians are staying. 
An estimated 100,000 people remain trapped in Mariupol since it was surrounded by Russian forces on March 1, according to Ukrainian officials. Ukrainian officials claim that more than 20,000 people in the city have died during the assault. 
CNN cannot independently identify these figures, as a firm death toll following weeks of heavy bombardment is not available. 
The last holdout of resistance: On Friday, Shmyhal said civilians including women and children are hiding at the Azovstal steel plant, the final bastion of Ukrainian defenders inside the city. He said the Russian army is still surrounding the area, and Ukraine is speaking with partners to negotiate an evacuation corridor. 
He also called on ambassadors from all countries, including the United States, to return to their embassies in Kyiv. 
Link Copied! 
Moldova summons Russian ambassador after Russia announces goal to access Moldovan state 
From CNN's Hira Humayun 
Moldova’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integration has summoned Russia’s ambassador to Moldova, after Russia announced Friday that its military is aiming to control southern Ukraine and access Moldova. 
In a statement, the Moldovan ministry said it “took note of the statements of the representative of Russia’s Ministry of Defense” and “expressed deep concern over the statements made by the Russian official.” 
“Full control”: Earlier on Friday, Russian state media said the Russian military is aiming to establish “full control” over southern Ukraine in the second phase of its invasion of Ukraine. 
State news agency TASS quoted the acting commander of Russia’s Central Military District, Maj. Gen. Rustam Minnekaev, as saying the aim was to create a land corridor between Ukraine’s eastern Donbas region and Crimea. He added that control over Ukraine’s south would give Russian forces access to Transnistria, a separatist statelet in Moldova, where a contingent of Russian forces has been stationed since the early 1990s. 
“Since the beginning of the second phase of the special operation, which began literally two days ago, one of the tasks of the Russian army is to establish full control over Donbas and southern Ukraine, this will provide a land corridor to Crimea,” Minnekaev said according to TASS. 
Moldovan response: Moldova’s Foreign Ministry said the statements made by the Russian general were “unfounded and contradict the position of the Russian Federation supporting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova, within its internationally recognized borders.” 
It added that during the meeting with the Russian ambassador, Moldovan officials reiterated that Moldova is a “neutral state and this principle must be respected by all international actors, including the Russian Federation.” 
Link Copied! 
UN secretary-general will travel to Ukraine to meet with Zelensky on Thursday 
From CNN’s Richard Roth 
UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres will travel to Ukraine next week where he is expected to meet with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Thursday, according to a UN spokesperson. 
Guterres will also meet with Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba as well as UN agency staff members to discuss the scaling up of humanitarian assistance to Ukraine. 
Earlier today, the UN said Guterres “will be received by President Vladimir Putin” on Tuesday after having a working meeting and lunch with the foreign minister of Russia. 
A UN spokesperson said Wednesday that Guterres was requesting separate audiences with Putin in Moscow and Zelensky in Ukraine to discuss the urgent need to bring about peace. 


April 29, 2023 Russia-Ukraine news 
We've wrapped up our live coverage for the day. Read more about Russia's invasion of Ukraine here, or scroll through the updates below. 
4:41 p.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
This map shows the latest state of control in Ukraine 
Satellite imagery reviewed by CNN and other news organizations shows Russia is developing multi-layered defenses in a large swath of southern Ukraine, with long lines of anti-tank ditches, obstacles, minefields and trenches. 
All eyes are on the south of the country ahead of Ukraine's anticipated counteroffensive, which may aim to cut off the annexed Crimean peninsula from the Russian-occupied portions of Ukraine and the rest of the country. 
Nova Kakhova — a Russian-occupied town in the south that is home to an important hydroelectric project on the Dnipro River — experienced "severe artillery fire" by Ukrainian forces this weekend, according to the local Russian-backed administration. 
4:20 p.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
It's nighttime in Kyiv. Catch up on the latest here 
As Sunday nears in Ukraine, this is what we've been tracking today: 
Anticipated counteroffensive: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an interview posted on his Telegram Saturday that Ukraine is prepping for a counteroffensive against Russian troops, stressing that it "will happen." He demurred on giving any exact start dates in an interview with reporters. He said Ukraine is still in need of "certain weapons," and the main risk for his troops is whether they will have enough of the ammunition they need. 
Satellite imagery reviewed by CNN and other news organizations shows Russia pumping up its defenses in parts of southern Ukraine, with layers of anti-tank ditches, obstacles, minefields and trenches. 
Meanwhile, Nova Kakhova — a Russian-occupied town in the south that is home to an important hydroelectric project on the Dnipro River — experienced "severe artillery fire" by Ukrainian forces, according to the local Russian-backed administration. 
Massive fire in Crimea: In the early hours of Saturday, the Russian-backed governor of Sevastopol says a suspected drone attack hit an oil depot in the Crimean port city. Mikhail Razvozhaev said "only one drone was able to reach the oil reservoir" and another one was downed. No one was injured in the blaze, according to the governor. 
The Russian Defense Ministry has yet to comment on the incident. 
A spokesperson for the Ukrainian defense ministry's military intelligence service cautioned residents of Crimea against going near any military sites for the time being. 
Apartment strike in Uman: The search and rescue operation in the central Ukrainian city was declared over, following Friday’s deadly missile strike that hit an apartment building, killing at least 23 people — including six children, according to authorities. Two residents who are still missing are presumed dead, according to a local police official. 
A makeshift memorial was set up, according to a CNN team on the ground, as rescuers dug through rubble and family members waited for news of loved ones. 
The strike is believed to have been the deadliest attack on Ukrainian civilians in months. 
3:04 p.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
President of Czech Republic visits internally displaced people in Dnipro 
From CNN's Mariya Knight 
Czech Republic President Petr Pavel on Saturday visited internally displaced people in the Ukrainian city of Dnipro, according to posts on his Twitter and Facebook accounts. 
"Because of the war, many Ukrainians lost their homes. About 200,000 of them found refuge in the Dnipro," Pavel tweeted, adding that his country will focus on humanitarian and development aid in the area. 
The Czech president called Russia’s invasion of Ukraine "barbaric." 
"I hoped I would never see pictures like this again," Pavel tweeted. 
One of the photos from the Czech president's account shows Pavel writing the words "Russia, Go Home!" on a military vehicle with a marker. 
"We are with you. You will avenge your fallen, you will regain your freedom. Russia, Go Home!" he wrote. 
Pavel and Slovakian President Zuzana Čaputová visited Ukraine Friday in their first joint visit abroad. 
Some background on Pavel: He won the Czech Republic’s presidential election in January and took office in March of this year, after a campaign featuring strong backing for NATO and the European Union and support for aid to Ukraine. 
A former army chief, Pavel became chairman of NATO’s military committee for three years before retiring in 2018. 
2:26 p.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
French artist dedicates Kyiv mural to executed Ukrainian prisoner of war 
From CNN's Mariya Knight 
A mural by French street artist Christian Guemy, who is known by the pseudonym C215, has appeared in the center of Kyiv on an administrative building of the Verkhovna Rada, the Ukrainian parliament said on Facebook Saturday. 
The mural depicts Oleksandr Matsiyevsky, a prisoner of war who shouted, "Slava Ukraini (Glory to Ukraine)" before he was executed by Russian forces on December 30, 2022. Video of the execution surfaced and prompted outrage across the country. 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky posthumously awarded Matsiyevsky with the country's highest honor, the Hero of Ukraine medal, later in March. 
More about the video: Zelensky vowed last month to "find the murderers" involved in the video, as officials in Kyiv roundly condemned the incident as a war crime. The clip showed an unarmed soldier allegedly in Russian captivity wearing Ukrainian combat fatigues and smoking a cigarette, near what appears to be a fighting position. The man is then shown pulling the cigarette from his mouth, blowing out the smoke and saying the battle cry before being executed, with fighters off camera firing several shots at him. 
Vyacheslav Shtuchnyi, the parliament's secretary general, said the Kyiv mural is a tribute to all those who defend Ukraine every day against Russian aggression. 
The parliament noted that a delegation visited a Guemy exhibition in the National Assembly of the French Republic in January, and "there, a common idea arose to create a mural in Kyiv." 
According to parliament, this is not Guemy’s first work in Ukraine. He had already created street art in Lviv, Zhytomyr, Kyiv, and hard-hit areas of the Kyiv region, such as the towns of Bucha, Hostomel and Irpin. 
2:26 p.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
Pope Francis meets Ukrainian refugees on papal visit to Budapest 
From CNN’s Antonia Mortensen in Budapest and Eleanor Pickston in London 
Pope Francis met with refugees, many of whom are from Ukraine, and people facing poverty at St. Elizabeth of Hungary Church in central Budapest on Saturday morning. 
Around 600 people participated in the meeting inside the church, and 1,000 more gathered in the square outside. 
During his address, the Pope appealed to the importance of charity and heard testimonies from the refugees. 
“The memory of love received rekindles hope and inspires people to embark upon a new journey in life. Even amid pain and suffering, once we have received the balm of love, we find the courage needed to keep moving forward: We find the strength to believe that all is not lost, and that a different future is possible,” Francis said as part of his address. 
Hungary and Ukraine: Hungary has angered allies since the war in Ukraine began. The country, which shares a border with Ukraine, has refused to back military aid for Kyiv while maintaining relations with Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
Pope Francis arrived in Budapest on Friday, beginning his three-day papal visit to Hungary, and met with President Katalin Novák, Prime Minister Viktor Orbán and representatives of the clergy. 
In a speech during his first public address of the visit, the Pope urged Hungarians to accept migrants and refugees. Quoting Saint Stephen, he said, "I urge you to show favor not only to relations and kin, or to the powerful and wealthy, or to your neighbors and fellow countrymen, but also to foreigners and all who come to you." 
1:59 p.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
Ukraine isn't the only force gearing up for Kyiv's counteroffensive. Here's how Russia is preparing 
From CNN's Tim Lister 
Russia has had nearly six months to prepare the ground for Ukraine's anticipated counteroffensive this spring, building an elaborate array of defenses in occupied territory near the front lines. 
Breaking through will present a huge challenge for Kyiv's troops, with obstacles extending hundreds of miles across the meandering southern front – where Ukrainian forces are expected to concentrate their attacks in the coming weeks. 
Satellite imagery reviewed by CNN and other news organizations shows the extent of Russia's defenses: layers of anti-tank ditches, obstacles, minefields and trenches. 
The challenge for Ukrainian troops will be to bypass or overcome such obstacles at speed, creating momentum that causes Russian command and control to melt down. 
Months of preparation: Ground defenses began to appear after Russian forces withdrew from part of the Kherson region in November, and they essentially established a new defensive line stretching across largely rural areas of southern Ukraine. 
The defenses, including concrete "dragons' teeth" tank obstacles, are only as good as the Russian forces assigned to each sector. On their own, they are a limited impediment. 
Moscow has pushed more units into southern Ukraine over recent weeks, but it remains to be seen how many Russian troops – and of what quality – are assigned to each section of such a long front line. 
No surprises: Ukrainian officials have acknowledged that unlike last September’s sudden sweep through much of the northeastern Kharkiv region, they may lack the element of surprise in any larger counteroffensive. 
Ukraine does have the advantage of choosing where and when to go, and with what concentration of forces. Once the assault begins, other factors could come into play: everything from the weather to Russia’s capacity and desire to counterattack, plus aerial fighting. 
Read more and view satellite images of Russia's defenses here. 
11:48 a.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
Ukrainian military intelligence warns Crimea residents to avoid military facilities for "the near future" 
From CNN's Mariya Knight, Kostan Nechyporenko and Darya Tarasova 
The Ukrainian defense ministry's military intelligence service urged residents of Crimea to stay away from military facilities following a massive fuel depot fire sparked by a suspected drone attack in Sevastopol on Saturday. 
Calling the blaze "bavovna," which is used as another word for an explosion in Ukrainian, Andrii Yusov, a representative for the Defence Intelligence of Ukraine, said the fire "is God's punishment, in particular for the civilians killed in Uman." 
Yusov was referring to the Russian missile strike on an apartment block in the central Ukrainian city of Uman Friday that killed at least 23 people. 
"This punishment will be long-lasting," he said in an interview with Ukrainian media on Saturday. 
"It is advisable for all residents of temporarily occupied Crimea not to stay near military facilities or facilities providing for the aggressor's army in the near future," he added. 
Yusov claimed the fire "destroyed more than 10 tanks with oil products with a capacity of 40,000 tonnes." According to Yusov, the oil products were intended for use by the Russian Black Sea Fleet. 
CNN cannot independently verify claims on the extent of the fuel depot's damage. 
What Russia says: The Russian Defense Ministry has not yet commented on the incident. But the city's Russian-installed governor, Mikhail Razvozhaev, said the now-extinguished blaze was the result of a drone attack. He said "only one drone was able to reach the oil reservoir" and another one was downed. Four fuel tanks were hit, but no one was injured, he added. 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said in an interview released Saturday that Ukraine is preparing for a counteroffensive, but declined to say when it would happen. He has repeatedly pledged to "liberate" Crimea from Russia. Moscow declared the peninsula annexed since 2014. 
11:24 a.m. ET, April 29, 2023 
Families grieve at growing memorial near the site of devastating missile strike in central Ukraine 
From CNN's AnneClaire Stapleton 
Ukrainians in the central city of Uman have set up a makeshift memorial for victims of the Russian missile strike that hit an apartment block Friday. 
A CNN team at the site of the attack saw family members waiting for any news of their loved ones Saturday, including a woman clutching a teddy bear. Residents dropped off flowers and stuffed animals at the growing memorial; others brought photos. 
Investigators spoke to residents who were impacted and lost their valuables, gathering evidence for potential war crime charges against Russia. 
Grassroots humanitarian efforts continued, with piles of donated clothing, mattresses and shoes growing at a school next door. 
All the while, rescuers worked through each level of the nine-story building, digging through belongings, clothing and rubble, hoping to find any further signs of residents. 
Eventually, authorities said search and rescue efforts had concluded. At least 23 people were killed, including six children, and two missing women were presumed dead, according to a local police official. 
Officials were unable to identify some bodies recovered from the rubble because they were severely burned, said Yulia Norovkova, a spokesperson for the region's emergency services. 
The devastating strike is thought to be the deadliest attack on Ukrainian civilians in months. 


CNN values your feedback 
1. How relevant is this ad to you? 
2. Did you encounter any technical issues? 
Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues 
Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues 
Cancel Submit 
Thank You! 
Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. 
Russia’s war in Ukraine 
What we're covering 
Ukrainian forces are withdrawing from the embattled eastern city of Severodonetsk after months of bloody combat, a regional military chief said. 
Russian forces are gaining an advantage in eastern Ukraine as they learn from mistakes made during the earlier stages of their invasion, two US officials told CNN. 
European Union leaders have agreed to grant Ukraine and Moldova candidate status for EU membership. The EU said it will “swiftly” work on increasing military support to Ukraine and will work on further financial assistance. 
The BRICS countries — Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa — said they support talks between Russia and Ukraine in a joint statement published on the Kremlin’s website. 
Having connection issues? Bookmark CNN’s lite site for fast connectivity. 
Follow the latest news on Russia’s war in Ukraine here and read more about today’s developments in the posts below. 
Link Copied! 
How Mila Kunis raised millions to support Ukrainians in need 
From CNN's Gabriel Kinder, 
In 1991, when actor Mila Kunis moved to the United States, her family left their home in what was then the Soviet Union. She was seven and a half; she spoke Russian and says she thought of herself as Russian. 
“If I said the word Ukraine, no one would know where that country was on the map, and so I was like, ‘that’s exhausting.’ Let’s just stick to the big red dot over there, and so I would say I’m from Russia for many, many years,” Kunis told CNN’s Erin Burnett. 
Last February, when Russian forces invaded Ukraine, Kunis said she found a new sense of pride in the country where she was born. She made it clear: “I am Ukrainian who speaks Russian, and I found myself correcting myself and my friends who are also from Ukraine.” 
Since the invasion, roughly one-third of Ukraine’s citizens have been forced to abandon their homes and more than five million have sought refuge in other countries. 
Watching news of the war impacted Kunis deeply. She told Burnett, “As a mother, any time you see children in any facet of harm, it is indescribable pain because all you want to do is help a child. That’s all; that’s literally all I want to do.” 
So, Kunis and her husband Ashton Kutcher decided to “reverse engineer that desire and try to figure out the most productive way of helping,” she said. 
Together, they looked for ways to have an immediate impact on the people who are suffering. They decided to raise money and help provide housing and supplies for refugees. 
They partnered with GoFundMe.org, which set up the technical structure to accept donations within hours 
According to their fundraiser, donations directly benefit Flexport.org and Airbnb.org, two organizations actively on the ground providing immediate help to those who need it most. Flexport.org is organizing shipments of relief supplies to refugee sites, and Airbnb.org is providing free, short-term housing. 
Kunis and Kutcher named their campaign Stand With Ukraine and launched it in early March with the goal of raising $30 million. The couple donated $3 million in matching funds. Just two weeks later, they exceeded their goal, and in a video said 65,000 people contributed. 
To date, Stand with Ukraine has raised more than $36 million, and more than 75,000 people have donated. Kunis says the campaign not only helps the people of Ukraine but allows supporters around the world to be involved. 
Programming Note: Mila Kunis, Sean Penn, Chef José Andrés and Glenn Close will be among the celebrities recognized during “CNN Heroes Salutes,” hosted by Erin Burnett Saturday, June 25th at 10 p.m. ET. 
Link Copied! 
Ukrainian mayor of Mariupol says there is no water and thousands of tons of garbage in the streets 
From CNN's Sebastian Shukla 
Vadym Boichenko, the exiled mayor of Mariupol, gave a brief update on the situation inside the city now under Russian control. 
Speaking on Friday, Boichenko said that 120,000 residents of the city are trapped, unable to escape. He added that the sanitary situation in the city is becoming critical. 
“Garbage has not been taken out since February. Thousands of tons of garbage lie on the street, rotting. The sewer does not work. There is no water,” he said. 
Boichenko is no longer physically in the city, but he provides updates on the conditions inside the city from sources and information he receives. 
According to those sources, Russian forces have “distanced themselves from the locals because they are afraid of getting infected.” 
Boichenko added that he is unsure if diseases may be spreading around the city. 
Link Copied! 
US secretary of state says it "makes no sense" for Russia to demand inspecting Ukrainian ships 
From CNN's Kylie Atwood and Michael Conte 
Antony Blinken during the International Conference On Global Food Security on June 24 in Berlin, Germany. 
(Mika Savolainen/Pool/Getty Images) 
US Secretary of State Antony Blinken said it doesn’t make sense for Russia to demand that it be able to inspect every Ukrainian ship leaving Ukrainian ports. 
“By what right or by what logic does Russia insist on inspecting Ukrainian sovereign ships leaving Ukrainian ports going to other countries? That makes no sense,” Blinken said to CNN’s Fred Pleitgen at a press conference in Germany on Friday. 
Blinken is in Berlin for a ministerial conference on food security. He also said that Ukraine needs assurances that its ports will be safe from potential Russian ships, when asked about Russian demands that Ukraine clears the passages of mines. 
“When Russia says that it might be prepared to let ships out, that potentially creates the risk of Russian ships going in and attacking Odesa directly. So the Ukrainians have to have confidence that in doing anything that would allow their ships to get out of port that the Russians won’t take advantage of that and allow Russian ships to go in and attack Odesa,” Blinken said. 
Blinken did not say there has been any definitive progress on getting Ukrainian grain out of the country despite high-profile attention — both by the Biden administration and its allies — on the problem for over a month now. 
Blinken also expressed support for the United Nations, which has been trying to work with both the Russians and the Ukrainians to develop a solution. 
“The United Nations, the secretary general, have been working very persistently to see if some kind of agreement can be reached that would allow a channel out of Odesa for Ukrainian ships and so food and grain. We very much support that effort,” Blinken said. 
Link Copied! 
Mykolaiv mayor urges "everyone who wants to stay alive to leave the city" 
From CNN's Sebastian Shukla 
The mayor of the southern Ukraine city of Mykolaiv, Oleksandr Sienkevych, has urged residents of the city to leave. 
“I suggest everyone who wants to stay alive to leave the city. About 230,000 people remain in Mykolayiv city now,” the mayor said. 
Evacuation routes out of the city are in the directions of Odesa, Kryvyi Rih and Kyiv. 
He described the situation as “generally very bad. The city is shelled every day.” 
The mayor said 111 people have been killed and 502 people have been injured, including six children. 
Link Copied! 
IAEA "increasingly concerned" for staff at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant 
From CNN's Sharon Braithwaite in London 
A Russian serviceman guards in an area of the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Station in territory under Russian military control, southeastern Ukraine, on May 1. 
(AP) 
The International Atomic Energy Agency is “increasingly concerned about the difficult conditions facing staff” at Ukraine’s Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, IAEA Director General Rafael Mariano Grossi said Friday in a statement. 
Grossi also stressed that IAEA must go there “as soon as possible” and that the situation at the site, under the control of Russian armed forces, is “clearly untenable.” 
“The IAEA is aware of recent reports in the media and elsewhere indicating a deteriorating situation for Ukrainian staff at the country’s largest nuclear power plant,” Grossi said. 
“The situation at this major nuclear power plant is clearly untenable. We are informed that Ukrainian staff are operating the facility under extremely stressful conditions while the site is under the control of Russian armed forces,” he said, adding the recent reports are “very troubling and further deepen my concern about the well-being of personnel there.” 
Link Copied! 
Ukrainian forces are withdrawing from Severodonetsk to "better defend themselves," senior US official says 
From CNN's Michael Conte, Barbara Starr and Sonnet Swire 
Ukrainian forces moving back from Severodonetsk are “putting themselves in a position where they can better defend themselves,” according to a senior US defense official. 
“The Ukrainian armed forces are performing a professional, tactical retrograde in order to consolidate their forces in positions that they can better defend themselves,” said the official in a background call with reporters. 
The official also said Russian forces are still “just eking out inch by inch of territory” in Donbas and characterized the Russian move on Severodonetsk as a “very small, very incremental gain.” 
However, the official said they did not want to minimize the “significant” percentage of territory Russia does control in Ukraine or the loss of Ukrainian lives. 
Link Copied! 
Settlements south of Lysychansk are under increased fire, Ukraine's defense ministry says 
From CNN's Olga Voitovych 
Several settlements south and southeast of the city of Lysychansk are currently under increased fire by Russian forces, Ukrainian Ministry of Defense spokesperson Oleksandr Motuzianyk said at a briefing Friday. 
“The hottest sectors of the front are the settlements in the southern and southeastern directions from Severodonetsk. The enemy has significantly increased the number of air strikes,” Motuzianyk told journalists. “As a result of the strikes on Lysychansk, a large number of buildings were destroyed in the surrounding settlements.” 
“The settlements of Borivske, Verkhniokamenka, Mykolaivka and Bila Hora are under fire,” Motuzianyk added. 
The remarks highlight the ground Russian forces have gained in the past few days, with all the settlements in close distance to the strategic axis of Lysychansk-Severodonetsk. 
“[Russia] is trying to establish full control over Severodonetsk, conducts offensive operations to try to surround our troops in the area of ​​Lysychansk and to block the main logistics routes,” Motuzianyk said. “Heavy fighting continues; the enemy is trying to entrench in the areas of Loskutivka and Rai-Oleksandrivka.” 
Motuzianyk also said Ukrainian forces had been able to repel a Russian offensive in Borivske. 
Ukrainian forces will have to withdraw from Severodonetsk, the head of the Luhansk regional military administration said earlier. 
Link Copied! 
All pledged rocket systems will be in Ukraine by mid-July, US defense official says 
From CNN's Michael Conte and Barbara Starr 
The first batch of four High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems that the US pledged to Ukraine are now in the country, and the newly announced batch of four HIMARS will be delivered by “mid-July,” according to a senior US defense official. 
Another platoon of Ukrainians is in training to operate the systems, the official told reporters on a background call. 
Link Copied! 
G7 foreign ministers say Russia is to blame for exacerbating food insecurity 
From CNN's Sharon Braithwaite in London 
Russia’s war against Ukraine is exacerbating food insecurity, the G7 foreign ministers said Friday in a joint statement. 
The ministers reiterated their condemnation of the war and called on Moscow “to cease its attacks and threatening actions and un-block the Ukrainian Black Sea ports for food exports.” 
“In today’s meeting the G7 Foreign Ministers of Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the United Kingdom, and the United States of America, and the High Representative of the European Union, reaffirmed in the strongest terms their condemnation of Russia’s continued war of aggression against Ukraine,” according to the joint statement. 
A Russian soldier guards a pier with grain storage silos in the background at Mariupol Sea Port, Ukraine, on June 12. 
(AP) 
The ministers said that in addition to Russia’s blockade of ports, troops are bombing grain silos and damaging Ukraine’s agricultural infrastructure. 
“Ministers rejected Russia’s false narrative and disinformation on sanctions. All G7 sanctions include exemptions to allow Russian food and agricultural products to get to global markets,” according to the statement. 
The foreign ministers pledged to support Ukraine with military and defense assistance “for as long as necessary.” 
Link Copied! 
International partners "united" in fight against looming food crisis, German foreign minister says 
From CNN's Nadine Schmidt and Claudia Otto in Berlin 
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock, right, and US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, left, address journalists following a meeting at the Foreign Ministry in Berlin, Germany, on June 24. 
(Bernd von Jutrczenka/AFP/Getty Images) 
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said Friday international partners are working together in the fight against the looming food crisis caused by Russia’s war in Ukraine. 
”We are working together against Russia’s cynical grain war that threatens to destabilize countries,” Baerbock told reporters at a joint news conference with US Secretary of State Antony Blinken, adding, ”This difficult time is also a time of almost unprecedented closeness and unity.” 
”We will not allow this war to starve the world,” Baerbock said, adding, ”There is insecurity in the world regarding delivery, especially of grains, and payment.” 
Baerbock said the top priority of Friday’s food security conference hosted by Germany is to set up reliable transport routes, including the opening of transport via sea and rail, to allow grain from Ukraine to be exported. 
The German foreign minister also said with the initiative of the US, temporary silos will be built in Ukraine to store and export grain to avert a global food crisis. 
Link Copied! 
It's mid-afternoon in Kyiv. Here's what you need to know 
After months of grueling fighting, Ukrainian forces are withdrawing from the city of Severodonetsk, a key strategic stronghold in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine. A regional Ukrainian military chief accused Russia of destroying most of the city’s infrastructure during an intense shelling campaign. 
Here are the latest headlines on Russia’s war on Ukraine: 
Several Ukrainian units still remain in Severodonetsk, as the withdrawal is expected to last a few days, head of the local district military administration, Roman Vlasenko, told CNN. 
Ukrainian forces in the city held on much longer than many observers anticipated, but the military has clearly now decided that there was nothing more to defend – and that hundreds of civilians sheltering at a chemical plant were in greater danger every passing day, writes CNN’s Tim Lister. 
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock accused Russia of using ”hunger as a weapon of war” and holding ”the whole world hostage,” ahead of a key gathering on Friday in Berlin. 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says his country is “grateful” to US President Biden and the American people for the latest package of $450 million in military aid. 
As he marked four months since Russia began its invasion, Zelensky wrote on his official Telegram channel on Friday: “Everything changed for Ukraine four months ago. We became a country in army boots. A country in tanks, aircraft, ships. A country in trenches and shelters.” 
A Russian-installed politician in the occupied southern Ukrainian city of Kherson was killed on Friday, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti. Ukrainian officials claimed responsibility. 
Link Copied! 
"We became a country in army boots," Zelensky says, observing four months of war 
From CNN's Olga Voitovych 
As he marked four months since Russia began its invasion, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says his nation “became a country in army boots.” 
“Everything changed for Ukraine four months ago. We became a country in army boots. A country in tanks, aircraft, ships. A country in trenches and shelters,” Zelensky wrote on his official Telegram channel on Friday. 
“Our way of life changed, but not our worldview. The path on which we are going to the goal changed, but the goal remained the same,” he continued 
Russia began its invasion of Ukraine four months ago on Feb. 24. 
Link Copied! 
Lavrov claims EU and NATO making "coalition" to "essentially" fight war with Russia 
From CNN’s Anna Chernova 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov claimed Friday that the EU and NATO are gathering a “coalition” to “essentially” prepare for a war with Russia. 
Commenting on Ukraine and Moldova joining the EU, Lavrov said the EU is not a military-political bloc, therefore, unlike NATO, the development of its relations with other countries does not create any threats or risks for Russia. 
However, Russia perceives the rhetoric of the union had been increasingly aggressive and “Russophobic,” Lavrov said at a joint press conference with his Azeri counterpart Jeyhun Bayramov in Baku. 
France's President Emmanuel Macron, left, President of the European Council Charles Michel, center and President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen, right, attend a press conference after a European Council meeting where they granted Ukraine and Moldova EU candidacy status in Brussels, Belgium, on June 23. 
(John Thys/AFP/Getty Images) 
The European Council granted Ukraine and Moldova EU candidacy status on Thursday in a bid to show support for the two countries in the face of Russian aggression against Ukraine. 
The question of Ukraine and Moldova joining the EU was labelled “internal European affairs” by Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov, also on Friday. However, he added that it is crucial that a decision on the matter does not further affect Russia’s relations with the two countries or the European bloc. 
“These are, of course, internal European affairs,” Peskov told reporters on a regular conference call. 
He added, however: “It is crucial for us that all these processes do not bring more problems to us and to the relations of the above-mentioned countries with us. And that it doesn’t lead to a further deterioration of our relations with the EU.” 
Peskov’s comments echo the words of Russian President Vladimir Putin who said last Friday that Russia “has nothing against” Ukraine entering the EU as it is the “sovereign decision of any country” to join an economic bloc. 
Link Copied! 
Ukrainian withdrawal from Severodonetsk could last a few days, says local official 
From CNN's Olga Voitovych 
Ukrainian soldiers ride on an armored personnel carrier (APC) on a road out of the eastern Luhansk region, Ukraine, on June 23. 
(Anatolii Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images) 
Ukrainian forces have begun to withdrawn from Severodonetsk, but several units still remain in the Donbas city, as the operation is expected to last a few days, head of the Severodonetsk district military administration, Roman Vlasenko, told CNN. 
“As of now, the Ukrainian military still remains in Severodonetsk,” Vlasenko said on Friday. “They are being withdrawn from the city at the moment. It started yesterday.” 
Vlasenko went on to say that 568 civilians were also in the city, inside the Azot plant. 
Some background: Amid intense urban combat, hundreds of civilians, including dozens of children, took shelter in the Azot chemical plant in Severodonetsk. Unlike the Azovstal plant in Mariupol, it offers little protection below ground. 
As with Azovstal, the Azot plant and its immediate surroundings became the focal point of Ukrainian resistance, frustrating Russian commanders. 
Link Copied! 
Russia claims it has encircled up to 2,000 Ukrainian soldiers in Donbas 
From CNN's Anna Chernova, Vasco Cotovio and Olga Voitovych 
Russia says it has encircled around 2,000 Ukrainian soldiers in Donbas as it intensifies its efforts to capture Severodonetsk and Lysychansk, its defense ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said in a Friday briefing. 
“In total, in the Hirske area, we have cut off up to 2,000 people: about [Ukrainian] 1,800 servicemen, 120 Nazis from Right Sector, up to 80 foreign mercenaries, as well as over 40 armored combat vehicles and about 80 guns and mortars,” Konashenkov said, adding that 41 Ukrainian soldiers had surrendered voluntarily in the past 24 hours. 
CNN has reached out to the Ukrainian military and regional administration for comment on Russia’s claims — which CNN has been unable to independently verify — but has yet to hear back. 
Earlier on Friday, the head of the Luhansk regional military administration conceded that Russian forces had made progress in some areas to the south of Lysychansk, namely Zolote and Toshkivka. 
The Russian Ministry of Defense also said Moscow’s forces had targeted five ammunition depots in the Luhansk region, adding that Ukrainian forces were seeing high levels of attrition. 
“To replenish the losses in manpower, Ukrainian command are forced to form separate rifle battalions formed by untrained, mobilized citizens in each regions towards Donetsk and Luhansk,” he said. 
In the same area of Luhansk, the head of the Hirske military-civilian administration Оleksii Babchenko said that town had been “completely occupied” by Russian forces. The specifics have not yet been confirmed. 
“Unfortunately, as of 8 a.m. today, Hirske territorial community is completely occupied,” Babchenko said in a televised address. “Despite the fact that there was a very strong fortified area near Zolote, the breakthrough was made from the direction of Orikhove-Toshkivka. 
“The occupation regime is currently being established. 
“As early as Tuesday (June 21), it was impossible to reach Hirske, to deliver humanitarian aid and evacuate the population, because all roads were either not under our control, or already being fired at,” he said. 
Babchenko went on to say that around 60% of buildings in the town had been damaged. 
Link Copied! 
"Russia uses hunger as weapon of war and holds the whole world hostage," says German minister 
From CNN's Nadine Schmidt 
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock attends a press conference on Germany's contribution against the global hunger crisis at the International Conference on Food Security in Berlin on June 24. 
German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock accused Russia of using ”hunger as a weapon of war” and holding ”the whole world hostage,” ahead of a key gathering on Friday in Berlin. 
US State Secretary Antony Blinken is among those attending the conference on the looming food crisis caused by the war in Ukraine. 
Baerbock told reporters in Berlin that the event, entitled “Uniting for Global Food Security,” will address supply shortages caused by the war, while aiming to “stabilize food supplies worldwide.” 
She said the conference was called into action ”at very short notice” and that 50 delegations, as well as 40 ministers, from around the world will be attending. 
The top priority is to set up reliable transport routes to allow grain from Ukraine to be exported, she said of the food security conference. 
The West has demanded that Russia stop the blockade of Ukrainian seaports to allow vast stores of grain to be taken to world markets as fears rise of famines in vulnerable regions. 
Germany’s development minister Svenja Schulze, who was speaking at the same news briefing, said the country will spend $4.2 billion this year in the fight against global hunger. 
The Berlin conference will take place as the leaders of the G7 countries prepare to meet in the Bavarian Alpine resort of Schloss Elmau between June 26 and 28. 
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky is expected to discuss financial aid for Ukraine with the G7 leaders by video link on Monday. 
Link Copied! 
EU needs to buy energy collectively to prevent winter crisis, says Belgian Prime Minister 
From CNN's Xiaofei Xu and Sharon Braithwaite 
European Union member states need to buy energy collectively and implement price caps on gas to prevent what could be a hard winter, Belgian Prime Minister Alexander De Croo said on Friday. 
“We need to form an energy bloc, we need to buy energy collectively, we need to make use of price caps and we need to coordinate better among ourselves,” he added. 
De Croo went on to say that the EU Commission “should really take the lead right now.” 
Europe has tried to reduce its reliance on Russian natural gas since the invasion of Ukraine in late February. 
Europe’s energy crisis escalated this month as Moscow further reduced supplies to Germany, Italy and other members of the European Union. Twelve EU countries have so far been affected by Russian gas supply cuts, the bloc’s climate policy chief Frans Timmermans said on Thursday. 
Gas supply in the EU is “currently guaranteed” but the situation is “to be taken seriously,” the EU Commission told CNN on Thursday. 
On Thursday, the EU and Norway agreed to further strengthen their cooperation in the energy field, providing the EU with additional gas supplies. 
With previous reporting from CNN’s Arnaud Siad. 
Link Copied! 
Russia is on the verge of taking a key Ukrainian city, but bigger battles await 
Analysis from CNN's Tim Lister 
It was more a question of when, rather than if, the remaining Ukrainian units in the eastern city of Severodonetsk would be withdrawn. 
For the last several weeks, Russian forces have simply destroyed every defensive position the Ukrainians have adopted, pushing them into a few square blocks in and around the city’s Azot chemical plant. 
Ukrainian forces in Severodonetsk held on much longer than many observers anticipated, forcing the Russians and their allies to devote resources to the city that might have been used to press the offensive elsewhere. 
But the Ukrainian military has clearly made the decision that there was nothing more to defend – and that hundreds of civilians sheltering at the plant were in greater danger with every passing day. 
According to the Institute for War, a US think tank that follows the campaign closely, “The loss of Severodonetsk is a loss for Ukraine in the sense that any terrain captured by Russian forces is a loss – but the battle of Severodonetsk will not be a decisive Russian victory.” 
Now the battle moves across the Siverskiy Donets river to Lysychansk, the last city in Luhansk held by Ukrainian forces. And there are already signs that the Russians will use the same merciless tactic of area bombardment to grind down Ukrainian forces, deploying combat planes, multiple launch rocket systems and even short-range ballistic missiles such as the Tochka-U. 
Serhiy Hayday, the head of the Luhansk regional military administration, noted Friday: “There is a lot of military equipment. According to our information, at least six Tochka-U left in the direction of Lysychansk from Starobilsk only. One is enough destructive power – six is a total disaster.” 
The loss of Severodonetsk – and, potentially, Lysychansk in the coming days – may have been priced into Ukrainian calculations, given the overwhelming firepower of Russian forces and the apparent improvement in Russian logistics since the campaign against Kyiv was abandoned. But every town and city defended provides an opportunity to degrade the enemy. 
There are still large areas of the neighboring Donetsk region under Ukrainian control. The regional military administration says about 45% of Donetsk is held by Ukrainian forces, including the cities of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk. 
There are not many obvious defensive positions west of Lysychansk, in an area of open countryside. Ukrainian commanders will have to decide whether the whole pocket – courageously defended for weeks – is better abandoned for a more consolidated defense of Sloviansk, Kramatorsk and Kostiantynivka, the industrial belt of Donetsk. 
The question is whether the losses inflicted on Russian forces in recent weeks will impair their ability and desire to gobble up more territory, especially as Ukraine deploys more accurate western weapons such as the HIMARS rocket systems. 
Equally, it’s unclear whether the punishment endured by Ukrainian units in the Donbas region over the last two months has left them with enough resources to launch counter-attacks against Russian flanks (as they have attempted against Russian forces advancing from Kharkiv region in the north.) 
The Kremlin has not veered from its ultimate objective of taking all of Donetsk and Luhansk. It now has almost all the latter. Completing the “special military operation” will still take weeks, and more likely months, if at all. It has become a classic war of attrition. 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine's President Zelensky "grateful" to US for additional $450m in military aid 
From CNN's Victoria Butenko 
U.S. Marine Corps High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems with 3d Battalion, 12th Marines, pictured in Okinawa, Japan, on September 30. 
(U.S. Marine Corps photo by Lance Cpl. Ujian Gosun/ABACA/Reuters) 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says his country is “grateful” to US President Biden and the American people for the latest package of $450 million in military aid. 
The Biden administration on Thursday announced the additional military aid for Ukraine, with the United States giving the war-stricken country four more multiple launch rocket systems and artillery ammunition for other systems. 
The package, which will be drawn from existing Defense Department stocks, also includes 18 patrol boats for monitoring coasts and rivers, and small arms. 
The most significant part of the package is the four additional High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems (HIMARS), wheeled vehicles capable of launching barrages of guided rockets at targets up to approximately 40 miles away. 
Zelensky tweeted on Friday: “We’re grateful to [US President Joe Biden] and the American people for the decision to provide another $450 million defense aid package to Ukraine. This support, including additional HIMARS, is now more important than ever. 
Link Copied! 
Russia has destroyed roads leading into Lysychansk, says local official 
From CNN's Olga Voitovych 
A Ukrainian armored personnel carrier (APC) rides on the road while smoke rises over the oil refinery outside the town of Lysychansk, Ukraine, on June 23. 
(Anatolii Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images) 
Russian forces have targeted and destroyed some of the roads leading into the encircled Ukrainian city of Lysychansk, according to the head of the Luhansk regional military administration. 
The post, which included video of one of the targeted bridges, continued: “The bridge is damaged, only cars will be able to pass it now, the truck will not pass into the city.” 
Russian forces have been attempting to cut off supply lines into Lysychansk and Severodonetsk for weeks as they closed in on the two population centers. 
Link Copied! 
Pro-Russian politician killed in occupied Kherson, state media says 
From CNN's Oleksandra Ochman 
A Russian-installed politician in the occupied southern Ukrainian city of Kherson was killed on Friday, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti. 
Dmitry Savluchenko, head of the Department of Youth and Sports for the region, was killed “as a result of a terrorist attack,” according to RIA. 
Ukrainian officials claimed responsibility for Savluchenko’s death. 
“Our partisans have another victory,” Serhii Khlan, adviser to the head of the Kherson Civil Military Administration said in a Facebook post on Friday. “A pro-Russian activist and traitor was blown up in a car in one of Kherson’s yards in the morning.” 
Link Copied! 
Russian forces make gains in Donbas, south of Lysychansk 
From CNN's Vasco Cotovio and Olga Voitovych 
Smoke billows over the oil refinery outside Lysychansk, Ukraine, on June 23. 
(Anatolii Stepanov / AFP) (Photo by ANATOLII STEPANOV/AFP via Getty Images) 
Russian forces have made some gains in the past 24 hours, claiming two villages to the south of the neighboring Donbas cities of Lysychansk and Severodonetsk. 
Forces from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People’s Republic (LPR) said on Friday they had captured the villages of Hirske and Zolote. 
“The Ukrainian group, located in the Gorskoye-Zolotoye cauldron, has been liquidated. All settlements are under our control,” Andriy Marochko, an officer with the self-proclaimed LPR militia said in Telegram remarks carried by Russian state news agency TASS on Friday. 
The head of the Luhansk regional military administration, Serhiy Hayday, conceded that Russian forces had made gains south of Lysychansk. 
“The enemy is advancing towards Lysychansk from the side of Zolote and Toshkivka,” he said. “They really succeed in some settlements.” 
Link Copied! 
Ukrainian forces to withdraw from Severodonetsk, regional military chief says 
From CNN's Olga Voitovych 
Ukrainian soldiers ride a tank on a road in the eastern Luhansk region, Ukraine, on June 23. 
(Anatolii Stepanov/AFP/Getty Images) 
Ukrainian forces will have to withdraw from Severodonetsk, the head of the Luhansk regional military administration, Serhiy Hayday, said Friday, accusing Russia of destroying most of the city’s infrastructure. 
“Unfortunately, we will have to withdraw our military [from Severodonetsk]. It makes no sense to stay in positions broken after many months [of hostilities], because the number of dead in unfortified territories may grow every day,” Hayday said in a televised address. “Our defenders, who are there, have already received a command to withdraw to new positions, and to fully conduct hostilities from there.” 
Hayday said the situation in Severodonetsk was unsustainable after round the clock shelling by Russian forces over several months. 
Hayday went on to say Russia was now targeting neighboring Lysychansk from Zolote and Toshkivka, around 30 kilometers (18.6 miles) to the south. 
“They really succeed in some settlements,” he said. “Lysychansk is logistically stretched, the landscape is complex. Therefore, it is difficult to take it immediately.” 
According to Hayday, Russian attempts to infiltrate the city with sabotage and reconnaissance groups had been repelled. He added that evacuations and deliveries of military and humanitarian aid to the city were ongoing. 
Link Copied! 
4 killed in Russian military transport plane crash, state media reports 
From CNN’s Teele Rebane and Josh Pennington 
Four people died when a Il-76 military transport plane crashed in the city of Ryazan, western Russia, during a training flight on Friday, state-run news agency TASS reported, citing the Russian Defense Ministry. 
Ten people were aboard the jet, according to TASS. 
According to the Defense Ministry, the plane crashed due to an engine malfunction; there was no cargo on board. 
Link Copied! 
Russian forces under orders to blockade two major Ukrainian ports and are mining the Black Sea, US says 
From CNN's Jennifer Hansler 
The United States has information that the Black Sea Fleet of the Russian Navy “is under orders to effectively blockade the Ukrainian ports of Odesa and Ochakiv,” a US official told CNN, citing what was described as recently declassified intelligence. 
According to this official, that intelligence also revealed indications that Russian forces are deploying mines in the Black Sea and have previously mined the Dnipro River. 
Western officials have accused Moscow of “weaponizing” food supplies as leaders and experts warn of a looming food crisis with millions of tons of Ukrainian grain unable to reach to global market due to the war. 
“We can confirm that despite Russia’s public claims that it is not mining the northwestern Black Sea, Russia actually is deploying mines in the Black Sea near Ochakiv,” the US official told CNN Thursday. 
The Guardian first reported on the findings of the newly declassified intelligence. 
Moscow has claimed it is not impeding agricultural shipments from Ukraine and has said Kyiv must de-mine the waters for the ships to transit. 
“The Russian Federation is not creating any obstacles for the passage of ships or vessels. We are not preventing anything,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said in early June. 
On a call with reporters Thursday, hosted by the US State Department’s Africa Regional Media Hub, Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said, “We shouldn’t be buying the argument that it’s Ukraine who blocked the sea with its mines in order not to allow the shipment or the vessels to come in and out.” 
“Russia was mining the sea. We were mining the sea to defend ourselves. The Russians were mining it to — not to allow — to destroy our ships,” he said. “The real issue is what happens when the harbor is demined. Who will ensure and how it can be ensured that Russia will not abuse open harbor and attack Odesa from the sea? This is the question that everyone is rattling their minds on: how to make sure that Russia doesn’t attack Odessa from the sea.” 
Link Copied! 
EU says it will "swiftly work on a further increase of military support" to Ukraine 
From CNN's Chris Liakos 
The European Union says it will “swiftly” work on increasing military support to Ukraine and will work on further financial assistance. 
In a news release following the first day of the two-day EU Summit, the European Council said, “The European Union remains strongly committed to providing further military support to help Ukraine exercise its inherent right of self-defence against the Russian aggression and defend its territorial integrity and sovereignty. To this end, the European Council calls on the Council to swiftly work on a further increase of military support.” 
Leaders of the European Union (EU) attend day one of the EU leaders summit at the European Council headquarters in Brussels, Belgium, on June 23. 
(Valeria Mongelli/Bloomberg/Getty Images) 
The European Council also urged Russia to “immediately stop targeting agricultural facilities and removing cereals, and to unblock the Black Sea, in particular the port of Odesa, so as to allow the export of grain and commercial shipping operations,” blaming Russia for the global food security crisis. 
The European Council also condemned “Russia’s indiscriminate attacks against civilians and civilian infrastructure,” adding that “international humanitarian law, including on the treatment of prisoners of war, must be respected.” 
“Russia, Belarus and all those responsible for war crimes and the other most serious crimes will be held to account for their actions, in accordance with international law,” it said. 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine's EU hopes get shot in the arm as bloc's leaders approve candidate status 
From CNN's Luke McGee 
European Council President Charles Michel speaks during a joint news conference in Brussels, Belgium, on June 23. 
“Today marks a crucial step on your path towards the EU,” European Council President Charles Michel said on Twitter after talks in Brussels. Leaders also agreed to approve Moldova’s candidacy. 
The decision, made at an EU Council summit, comes a week after President of the European Commission Ursula von Der Leyen said it was the opinion of the bloc’s executive body that Ukraine deserved candidate status because it “has clearly demonstrated the country’s aspiration and the country’s determination to live up to European values and standards.” 
However, it is still likely to be years before Ukraine is able to join the EU. The process is lengthy and requires agreement from the 27 member states at almost every stage. This means that there are multiple opportunities for member states to use their veto as a political bargaining chip. 
BRICS countries — which include Russia — support Ukraine-Russia talks in joint declaration 
From CNN’s Chris Liakos and Arnaud Siad 
Russian President Vladimir Putin delivers a keynote speech in virtual format at the opening ceremony of the BRICS Business Forum in Beijing, China, on June 22. 
(Yin Gang/Xinhua/AP) 
BRICS countries said they support talks between Russia and Ukraine in a joint statement published on the Kremlin’s website on Thursday. 
The BRICS countries include Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa. 
“We have discussed the situation in Ukraine and recall our national positions as expressed at the appropriate fora, namely the UN [Security Council] and UN [General Assembly]. We support talks between Russia and Ukraine,” the statement read. 
“We have also discussed our concerns over the humanitarian situation in and around Ukraine and expressed our support to efforts of the UN Secretary-General, UN Agencies and ICRC to provide humanitarian assistance in accordance with the basic principles of humanity, neutrality and impartiality established in UN General Assembly resolution 46/182,” they added. 
The BRICS summit, hosted virtually by Beijing, marks Russian President Vladimir Putin’s first international forum with other heads of major economies since he launched his invasion in Ukraine back in February. 
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelensky has previously indicated he is willing to hold direct talks with Putin. 
Link Copied! 
Situation in Severodonetsk "difficult" but "stable," Ukrainian military says 
From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva 
The situation in the city of Severodonetsk is “difficult” but “stable,” according to Oleksii Hromov, deputy head of the Main Operations Directorate of the General Staff of Ukraine’s Armed Forces. 
“As of now, the situation is difficult, stable, the fighting is ongoing,” Hromov told reporters in a briefing Thursday. 
“Our servicemen have weapons at their disposal and are supported by artillery units, but unfortunately the enemy has the fire advantage,” he said. “[Russia] has enough artillery systems, enough munition, they inflict massive fire strikes, but our servicemen skillfully maneuver among the fortified positions.” 
Hromov conceded that Russia had damaged Ukraine’s supply routes into the city, but he said military leadership had found alternative ways to send ammunition in and bring out the wounded. 
In neighboring Lysychansk, “there is no safe place” left, Serhiy Haidai, head of the Luhansk region military administration, said on Thursday. 
The “whole of Lysychansk is being shelled with large caliber and air strikes,” he said. 
Authorities continue to evacuate civilians and deliver humanitarian aid, he added. 
Link Copied! 
Russia is gaining advantage in eastern Ukraine as forces learn from earlier mistakes, US officials say 
From CNN's Jim Sciutto 
Russian forces are gaining an advantage in eastern Ukraine as they learn from mistakes made during the earlier stages of their invasion of the country, including better coordinating air and ground attacks and improving logistics and supply lines, two US officials with direct knowledge of US intelligence assessments told CNN. 
The US does not expect new weapons systems recently supplied to Ukrainian forces, including the HIMARS multiple rocket launch system, to immediately change the situation on the battlefield in part because those systems are so far being sent with both a limited range and a limited number of rockets to ensure they are not fired into Russian territory. Additionally, Russian forces have been able to destroy some of the new Western-supplied weapons, including M777 howitzers, in targeted attacks. 
The US assessments, which increasingly envision a long and punishing battle in eastern Ukraine, come as the months-long war there has reached a pivotal moment in recent days. Ukraine’s military has been burning through Soviet-era ammunition that fits older systems, and Western governments are facing a tough decision on whether they want to continue increasing their assistance to the country. 
The US assessments paint a dismal image of the future of the war, with high personnel and equipment losses on both sides. US officials believe that Russian forces plan to maintain intense attacks in the east, characterized by heavy artillery and missile strikes, with the intention of wearing down Ukrainian forces and NATO resolve over time. 


CNN values your feedback 
1. How relevant is this ad to you? 
2. Did you encounter any technical issues? 
Video player was slow to load content Video content never loaded Ad froze or did not finish loading Video content did not start after ad Audio on ad was too loud Other issues 
Ad never loaded Ad prevented/slowed the page from loading Content moved around while ad loaded Ad was repetitive to ads I've seen previously Other issues 
Cancel Submit 
Thank You! 
Your effort and contribution in providing this feedback is much appreciated. 
What we covered here 
Kyiv has repeatedly targeted Russia’s routes into Crimea, the peninsula Moscow annexed in 2014 despite international outcry. 
Ukraine is using unmanned vehicles to attack faraway Russian targets by air and by sea. An attempted drone attack briefly halted traffic at an airport in Moscow on Sunday, according to the city’s mayor. 
Weekend missile attacks are the latest in a series of assaults on Russian infrastructure. Here's what we know 
From CNN staff 
Emergency personnel work near a damaged office building in the Moscow following a reported Ukrainian drone strike on August 1. 
Here’s what we know about some of the recent attacks: 
Sunday’s bridge strikes: Missiles rocked a pair of bridges linking occupied regions of Ukraine to the Crimean peninsula, which Moscow seized in 2014. Ukraine’s military said the strikes “hit two key routes of communication” for Russia. Kyiv has made it clear that it will prioritize cutting off the annexed peninsula from land newly captured since Moscow’s full-scale invasion of 2022. 
Attacks at sea: Ukraine hit one of Russia’s largest oil tankers with a sea drone late Friday, within 24 hours of an attack on a naval base in Russia’s Black Sea port of Novorossiysk. The first assault left a Russian warship badly damaged. The attacks were carried out using an emerging Ukrainian tool: sea drones that can travel long distances and have proven difficult to defend. 
Drones cross the border: A string of aerial drone strikes have also peppered Russian cities, including Moscow, throughout the summer. Though recent strikes on the Russian capital did not reportedly cause any injuries or fatalities — they have unsettled residents and created a sense that the scope of the conflict is drifting across the border. On Sunday, an attempted Ukrainian drone attack briefly halted traffic at an airport in Moscow, according to the city’s mayor. 
Ukraine says more is coming: Ukraine on Saturday pledged that there would be more attacks on Russian shipping in the Black Sea and another key bridge to Crimea — the structure linking the peninsula to mainland Russia, which Kyiv has also targeted on multiple occasions. Any explosions that happen on Russia’s ships or bridges in the region are “an absolutely logical and effective step,” the head of the Ukrainian Security Service said this week. If Russia wants such explosions to stop, he added, “they have the only option to do so — to leave the territorial waters of Ukraine and our land.” 
Link Copied! 
Peace talks in Saudi Arabia conclude with statements of goodwill but no concrete announcements 
From CNN's Hamdi Alkhshali 
Delegations from various countries and organizations attending the Ukraine peace summit in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, agreed to continue working together toward “achieving lasting peace in the region,” Saudi state news reported Sunday, but no specific developments were revealed. 
“The participants agreed on the importance of continuing international consultations and exchanging opinions in order to build a common ground that will pave the way for peace. They also emphasized the importance of benefiting from views and positive suggestions made during this meeting,” according to a statement from the Saudi Press Agency. 
In statements Sunday, the head of Ukraine’s presidential office called the talks “productive” and “extremely honest and open,” while Russia’s deputy foreign minister dismissed the talks as “doomed” to prevent meaningful developments. 
Some context: The lack of any concrete resolutions announced after the talks does not come as a surprise, as officials had tempered expectations. 
The meetings — which did not include representatives from Russia — were seen mostly as a means for laying out future frameworks. They were also viewed as a venue to potentially win support for Kyiv’s peace proposals from beyond its core Western backers like the United States and United Kingdom: The meetings included representatives from developing countries and from world powers that have sought to project varying degrees of neutrality in the conflict, like China and India. 
Ukraine and Russia remain publicly committed to prerequisites for direct negotiations that the other side finds unacceptable. 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine's military confirms striking key Russian routes to Crimea 
From CNN’s Mariya Knight and Kostan Nechyporenko 
Ukraine’s military has confirmed that it struck road bridges linking Crimea and Russian-occupied parts of southern Ukraine on Sunday. 
The strikes “hit two key routes of communication” for Russia, the Chonhar bridge linking the Kherson region to Crimea and a smaller bridge to the peninsula from the Ukrainian town of Henichesk, the Armed Forces of Ukraine said on Telegram. 
Russian-backed authorities and Russian state media had earlier reported that Kyiv was responsible for strikes on the bridges. The Russian-appointed head of occupied areas in the Kherson region accused Ukraine of using British-supplied Storm Shadow missiles in the attack. 
Link Copied! 
Kyiv launched British-supplied missiles at bridges between Crimea and occupied Ukraine, official says 
From CNN's Tim Lister 
Explosions on two bridges to Crimea Sunday were caused by Storm Shadow long-range missiles supplied to Ukraine by the United Kingdom, according to Vladimir Saldo, the Russian-appointed acting head of Kherson region. 
Saldo said the two bridges were used by civilian and not military traffic, and that a rupture to a gas pipeline running alongside the bridge cut off supplies to 20,000 residents of the city of Henichesk in Kherson. 
Saldo said the attack targeted civilians and did not impact military operations. 
“These strikes do not do anything for the special military operation that is currently underway,” he said. “They have decided to take petty revenge on civilians and those who are now moving through the territory of the Kherson region,” Saldo added. 
The Russia-backed leader said the missiles did not cause structural damage to the Chonhar bridge, which links the Kherson region and Crimea. The bridge is now closed to traffic, but Saldo predicted it would reopen by the end of the day. 
CNN cannot independently verify Saldo’s claims, and Ukraine has not immediately commented on the attacks. 
About the Storm Shadow missiles: In May, the United Kingdom delivered multiple Storm Shadow cruise missiles to Ukraine, giving the nation a new long-range strike capability to use during the counteroffensive against Russian forces, senior Western officials said. 
The Storm Shadow is a long-range cruise missile with stealth capabilities, jointly developed by the UK and France, which is typically launched from the air. With a firing range in excess of 250 kilometers (155 miles), it is just short of the 185-mile range capability of the US-made Army Tactical Missile Systems, or ATACMS, that Ukraine has long asked for. 
The extended range gives Ukraine the ability to strike deep into Russian-held territory in eastern Ukraine. 
CNN’s Jim Sciutto contributed to this report. 
Link Copied! 
Multiple explosions hit road bridges between Crimea and occupied Ukraine, Russian-installed officials say 
From CNN's Kostan Nechyporenko, Denis Lapin and Tim Lister 
One of the bridges reportedly struck connected the Arabat Spit on Crimea's east coast to the city of Henichesk. 
From truexakhersonua/Telegram 
Multiple explosions have been reported on critical road bridges linking Crimea with parts of the Russian-occupied Kherson region in Ukraine, according to Russian-installed officials. 
A bridge connecting the Arabat Spit, which is located on Crimea’s east coast, and the Ukrainian city of Henichesk was among the reported targets. Explosions have been heard in the city, according to an unofficial Telegram channel, RIA Melitopol. 
Strikes also hit the Chonhar bridge, which links the Kherson region and Crimea, said Vladimir Rogov, a member of the Russian-installed government in Zaporizhzhia. 
“A total of three or four hits are reported. The extent of the damage is still unknown,” he said. 
The Russian-appointed leader of occupied Kherson, Vladimir Saldo, said Ukraine fired 12 missiles at the Chonhar bridge and nine had been shot down. 
Saldo claimed Kyiv used advanced British Storm Shadow missiles in the attack. He also said the strikes hit a village school, and that one civilian who was on the bridge at the time of the attack was wounded. 
Saldo said officials were still sorting through details of the attack and the extent of the damage to the bridge, a gas pipeline and nearby towns. 
The Russian-appointed head of Crimea, Sergey Aksyonov, also acknowledged the attack, saying on Telegram that a bridge for cars and trucks was damaged, and “repair work is already beginning.” 
CNN cannot independently verify the Russian officials’ claims, and Ukraine has not immediately commented on the attack. 
Key context: Russia annexed the peninsula of Crimea in 2014, in a move condemned by Ukraine and its allies as illegal under international law. Kyiv has vowed to retake Crimea along with the territory occupied by Russia since it launched its full-scale invasion in 2022. 
Key bridges connect the peninsula to mainland Russia and to areas of Ukraine occupied by Moscow’s troops, which are now controlled by Russia-installed leaders. 
Crimean bridges have emerged as key targets in Ukrainian drone and missile attacks, especially as Ukraine vows to ramp up its assault on Russian targets in and around the Black Sea, and as Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky says Kyiv’s troops are working “to bring the war back where it came from.” 
Link Copied! 
Russian bomb hits blood transfusion center in Kharkiv region, Zelensky says 
From CNN's Mariya Knight 
Smoke and flames rise after President Volodymyr Zelensky says a Russian-guided aerial bomb hit a blood transfusion center in the town of Kupyansk in northeastern Ukraine, in this image released on August 5, 2023, and obtained from the Ukrainian President's Telegram account. 
A Russian guided aerial bomb struck a blood transfusion center in the country’s northeastern Kharkiv region Saturday, according to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky. 
He said on Telegram that there are dead and wounded victims as a result of the attack, but did not provide any specific numbers. 
Zelensky said the blood transfusion center is located in the Kupyansk community, where Russia has recently amassed troops on the eastern front line. A fire broke out at the center following the attack, he added. 
CNN cannot independently verify reports about attacks on the front lines in Ukraine. 
The area was liberated in a Ukrainian counteroffensive last fall. 
Link Copied! 
Flights at Moscow airport disrupted during a drone alert 
From CNN's Uliana Pavlova 
A plane takes off from Vnukovo International Airport on September 9, 2020. 
Alexander Sayganov/SOPA Images/LightRocket/Getty Images 
Flights at Moscow’s Vnukovo International Airport were temporarily disrupted during a drone alert Sunday. 
Citing the airport’s press service, Russian state news agency TASS said flight restrictions began at 10:26 a.m. in the capital due to “reasons beyond the airport’s control.” 
Nearly 30 flights were affected. 
Separately, Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said a drone attempted to break through Moscow’s air defenses at about 11 a.m. local time but was destroyed on approach. 
The Russian defense ministry later said a drone attack at 11:27 a.m. local time was “thwarted.” 
The capital on alert: Drone attacks on Moscow and inside Russia have become increasingly common in recent weeks. Officials in Kyiv have warned of more to come. 
This post has been updated with additional information. 
Link Copied! 
Peace talks at Ukraine summit in Saudi Arabia productive and honest so far, official says 
From CNN's Tim Lister 
The second meeting on restoring peace in Ukraine is taking place in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, with more than 40 countries participating today. 
A senior official from Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky’s office said the peace talks, so far, have been productive. 
“We had an extremely honest, open conversation, during which representatives of each country could voice their position and vision,” Andriy Yermak, head of Ukraine’s presidential office, said. 
Yermak said all the participants demonstrated their countries’ commitment to the principles of the UN Charter. He described the peace consultations as “very productive.” 
Among the participants are senior officials from the European Union, United States, Germany, United Kingdom, China, India, South Africa and Turkey. 
Russia was not represented. 
The meeting is expected to continue through Sunday. 
More context: The talks involve Ukraine, Western nations and representatives from developing countries — some of whom have refused to take sides in the conflict. Host country Saudi Arabia is hoping the summit results in support for Kyiv’s peace proposals from beyond its core Western backers. 
The meetings are likely to center more around the talking stages rather than concrete steps towards peace, as Ukraine and Russia continue to express conditions that are unacceptable to the other. Despite all this, the conference is being closely watched. 
CNN’s Sophie Tanno contributed to this report. 
Link Copied! 
Russia hasn't made major advances as fighting rages along the eastern front, Ukrainian military says 
From CNN's Maria Kostenko 
There has been heavy fighting along the eastern front line in the war, with hundreds of recent engagements, but Russia has failed to make any significant advances, a Ukrainian military official said Sunday. 
Kyiv’s soldiers have been particularly successful around Bakhmut, where some of the bloodiest fighting of the war has taken place, Serhii Cherevatyi, a deputy commander and spokesperson for Ukrainian forces in the country’s east, told CNN. 
Cherevatyi said Ukrainian troops were advancing “hundreds of meters every day” despite a tough Russian resistance. Kremlin forces fired more than 650 shells there in the past day alone, he said. 
“The enemy is putting up fierce resistance,” Cherevatyi told CNN. 
He added that movement along the front line was broadly static despite the intensity of the fighting. 
The fight further north: While Ukraine is advancing on Bakhmut, Russia is trying to move toward Kupyansk, a city to the north in the Kharkiv region, Cherevatyi said. 
Six attacks had taken place in settlements close to Kupyansk and Kharkiv’s border with the region of Luhansk. Some involved fighter jets and attack helicopters. 
“The Russians are concentrating their forces in this area, with powerful units there. However, we can see their intentions, we know what they want to do and what areas to attack,” Cherevatyi said. 
The Russian military said its forces had taken a village near Kupyansk on Saturday. Cherevatyi denied claims that Russia had made any ground, “unless we are talking about tens of meters. Nothing significant.” 
Cherevatyi also shot down any assertions that Kyiv had lost territory south of Svatove, another hotspot on the front that runs along the border of Kharkiv and Luhansk regions. 
CNN cannot independently verify battlefield reports from either side in the conflict. 
Link Copied! 
Important Ukrainian air base targeted in wave of Russian strikes, Kyiv says 
From CNN's Maria Kostenko and Tim Lister 
Russian forces attempted to strike a key air base in western Ukraine as they launched a wave of missiles and drones overnight into Sunday. 
The Starokostiantyniv airfield, in the Ukrainian region of Khmelnytskyi, has previously been targeted. 
“The Starokostiantyniv airfield keeps troubling the enemy,” said Yurii Ihnat, a spokesperson for the Ukrainian Air Force command. “And we can understand why — our pilots are hauling the enemy over the coals.” 
A local official said several homes were damaged in the attack and a fire had broken out on the premises of a grain elevator. 
Attacks across Ukraine: Ukraine’s Air Force said Russia fired 70 aerial attack weapons at targets across Ukraine in the latest wave of strikes. 
All 27 drones used in the barrage were shot down, as were 18 of the 26 cruise missiles used by Russia’s troops, according to Ukrainian officials. Kyiv did not specify how many hypersonic missiles made it through its air defenses. 
“Unfortunately, we do not always succeed in shooting down everything,” said Ihnat. 
Link Copied! 
Russian attacks in Kharkiv are on the rise, officials say 
From CNN's Maria Kostenko and Tim Lister 
Russian forces are stepping up their operations in the northeastern region of Kharkiv, according to Ukrainian officials. 
Kremlin forces have continued shelling several areas around the region, including the city of Kharkiv, the head of the region’s military administration, Oleh Syniehubov, said Sunday. 
Two men were killed and four people were wounded when a non-residential building was struck with a bomb in the village of Kruhliakivka, Syniehubov said. 
Russian artillery fire and air strikes along the front line have intensified in recent days. 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Saturday that a blood transfusion center in the region was also bombed. He said there are dead and wounded victims as a result of the attack, but did not provide any specific numbers. 
CNN cannot independently verify reports about attacks on the front lines in Ukraine. 
Dueling claims near Kupyansk: Russia claims it has captured a village near Kupyansk on Saturday, but Syniehubov said Ukraine’s troops have held their positions in the area. He also said Russia’s attempts to launch assaults on villages northeast of Kupyansk have failed. 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine accused of using cluster munitions against university in Donetsk, Russian state media claims 
From CNN's Mariya Knight 
Ukrainian forces allegedly shelled a university in Russian-held territory with controversial cluster munitions, Russia’s state media TASS reported, citing emergency services on the scene. 
TASS said that the Donetsk University of Economics and Trade was hit by the weapons, causing a fire to break out. Emergency services said there were no people inside at the time and they are working to put out the fire. 
CNN has not been able independently verify the claim. 
Donetsk has been plagued by fighting since 2014, when Russia began backing pro-Moscow separatists. The region was one of four territories Russia said it would annex last year in violation of international law. 
Understanding cluster munitions: Cluster munitions are particularly dangerous when fired near populated areas because they scatter explosive material, so-called “bomblets,” across large areas, posing a greater threat to nearby civilians than many other types of explosives. Those that fail to explode on impact can detonate years later, posing a long-term risk to anyone who encounters them, similar to landmines. 
The danger posed by cluster weapons has prompted more than 100 countries – including the United Kingdom, France and Germany – to sign a treaty prohibiting their use. 
Their use in the conflict: Russian forces have been accused of using cluster bombs throughout the conflict, killing at least 200 civilians, the Ukrainian prosecutor general’s office said in a statement on Friday. 
The United States began sending Kyiv American-made cluster bombs last month despite concerns regarding the danger they pose to civilians. US President Joe Biden told CNN’s Fareed Zakaria that he approved the shipments because Ukraine was “running out of ammunition.” 
Link Copied! 
Ukraine promises more attacks on Russian shipping and Crimea bridge 
From CNN's Tim Lister and Kostan Nechyporenko 
A screengrab from a video shows damage to the Crimea Bridge on July 17, 2023. 
Telegram via @grey_zone 
Ukraine has served notice that it intends to continue attacks using maritime drones, following two strikes using such weapons within 24 hours. 
The head of the Ukrainian Security Service (SBU) Vasyl Maliuk said Saturday that any explosions that happen to Russian ships or the Crimean bridge are “an absolutely logical and effective step. Moreover, such special operations are conducted in the territorial waters of Ukraine and are completely legal.” 
Maliuk said that if the Russians wanted such explosions to stop “they have the only option to do so — to leave the territorial waters of Ukraine and our land.” 
Some context: The Russian-flagged tanker Sig was damaged by a maritime drone overnight near the bridge connecting the annexed Crimean peninsula to mainland Russia. According to the Russian agency for Marine and River Transport, the Sig was hit shortly before midnight Friday local time. It was not carrying a cargo of oil at the time. 
The hit on the oil tanker was carried out in a joint operation with the Navy, a Ukraine Security Service (SBU) source told CNN. 
Officials issue more mandatory evacuations for children in eastern Ukraine 
From CNN's Yulia Kesaieva in Kyiv 
Ukrainian officials are ordering mandatory evacuations for children in nine additional frontline settlements “due to the difficult security situation and hostile shelling.” 
The government ministry that manages Russian-occupied territories in Ukraine said in a statement Saturday that officials have voted unanimously in favor of the new compulsory evacuations. 
They affect a series of towns and villages that dot the eastern Donetsk region: Yampil, Zarichne, Torske, Orihuvatka, Nykonorivka, Malynivka, Tykhonivka, Vasiutynske and Rai-Oleksandrivka. 
All are close to the front lines in an area that has seen attacks of growing intensity by Russian forces. The order applies to 130 children, the ministry said. 
The ministry also reiterated warnings for civilians to evacuate from a “five-kilometer (about 3-mile) danger zone” in the Sumy region of northern Ukraine. Currently, 1,718 people, including 228 children, have been evacuated from the area bordering Russia. 
“As of now, there are no people left in 21 settlements and evacuation measures are ongoing,” the statement said. 
Ukrainian authorities began issuing compulsory evacuation orders in March 2023 and have added settlements as conditions on the front line change. 


Russia's war in Ukraine 
We've wrapped up our live coverage for the day. You can read more about Russia's invasion of Ukraine here. 
4:38 p.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
Ukraine's defense minister is set to be replaced, senior Ukrainian lawmaker says 
From CNN's Kostan Nechyporenko and Andrew Carey in Kyiv 
Ukraine's Minister of Defence Oleksii Reznikov is expected to be replaced in a reshuffle, according to a senior Ukrainian lawmaker. 
David Arakhamia, the leader of President Volodymyr Zelensky’s parliamentary faction, shared the news in a Telegram statement Sunday. 
Reznikov has been under pressure for several weeks following corruption scandals at the defense ministry. 
"War dictates personnel policies," Arakhamia said. "Time and circumstances require strengthening and regrouping. This is happening now and will continue to happen in the future." 
Arakhamia's said Major Gen. Kyrylo Budanov, a top intelligence official in the ministry, was lined up to become Ukraine's next defense minister, saying the move was "absolutely logical for wartime." 
Some context: Reznikov's ministry has been mired in a corruption scandal related to military spending in recent weeks. 
Ukraine's National Anti-Corruption Bureau has been investigating “high-profile media reports” on allegations that the defense ministry was buying military provisions, including food for the troops, at inflated prices. 
Reznikov had just announced an internal audit of the country's armed forces related to procurement (the purchasing of supplies) before word of his apparent ouster Sunday. 
His deputy defense minister resigned late last month after the allegations surfaced in Ukrainian media. 
The official, Viacheslav Shapovalov, submitted his resignation after a “campaign of accusations related to the procurement of food supply (to the Armed Forces of Ukraine),” according to a statement from the ministry, which described the allegations as “unfounded and baseless.” 
4:29 p.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
Ukraine is auditing its military amid anti-corruption push, defense minister says 
From CNN's Kostan Nechyporenko and Stephanie Halasz 
Ukrainian officials will conduct a complete internal audit of procurements made by the country's armed forces, Ukraine's defense minister said, after a recent string of anti-corruption raids. 
“We have launched an internal audit that checks all procurement systems. It is still in progress," Minister of Defence Oleksii Reznikov said. "And I think that within a week, they should officially complete the audit of all of the procedures for February. Then they will audit everything. And then, it will be 'put on the table' for appropriate decisions." 
Some context: President Volodymyr Zelensky's recent anti-corruption push is viewed as a key step toward Ukraine’s possible admission into the European Union. 
Rooting out corruption is “an important dimension of the EU accession process,” said Ana Pisonero, a spokesperson for the European Commission, on Jan. 24. 
Ukrainian authorities uncovered stashes of cash, as well as luxury watches and cars, during raids carried out across the country last month. 
Among those caught up in the investigations is the acting head of the Kyiv tax authority, who was allegedly part of a scheme to overlook $1.2 billion worth of Ukrainian hryvnia in unpaid taxes. 
2:28 p.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
Analysis: Ukrainian military leaders are bracing for a brutal spring 
Analysis by CNN's Tim Lister 
Ukrainian military leaders appear to be bracing themselves for a brutal spring offensive. 
Veteran CNN producer Tim Lister has just returned from the Ukrainian eastern front with reporter Fred Pleitgen and photographer Matthias Somm. He told CNN’s Fredericka Whitfield that one military commander said the real war has not even started yet. 
“There are signs we saw on the front lines that (it) is beginning to happen already. It is the prologue to the big offensive,” Lister said. 
“We were quite struck by the amount of artillery and rocket fire that was flying in when we were on the front lines. It’s a big worry for the Ukrainians because they are running short of ammunition of all descriptions," he said. "It is very difficult to keep those supply lines open and keep their forces fully equipped on the front lines.” 
“And you have the winter weather to deal with as well. So they are up against it, but I have to say, the determination, the confidence and the sheer professionalism of many of the units we were with was very impressive,” Lister added. 
12:53 p.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
Russian forces allegedly seize and burn Ukrainian books in occupied Luhansk region 
From CNN's Niamh Kennedy in London 
Russian forces allegedly seized and burned Ukrainian books in public and school libraries in the Luhansk region, the Ukrainian National Resistance Centre said. 
Luhansk was one of four regions annexed last autumn by Russia, in a process that is illegal under international law. The region is currently run by Russian-backed separatists who have claimed it as the "Luhansk People's Republic." 
In a statement posted on its website Sunday, the National Resistance Center which is run by Ukraine's Special Forces said books have been "seized from the collections of public and school libraries" in the eastern Ukrainian region. 
"In Rovenky (Luhansk region), cases of mass burning of Ukrainian literature in local boiler rooms have been recorded," the statement continued. 
The Education Ministry of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic sent a 365-item list to the heads of city and district administrations and educational organizations. They were advised to remove the listed books from their libraries, the statement added. 
Ukrainian officials have spoken out about the pressure placed on educators in occupied areas to adapt school programs to align with pro-Russian rhetoric. 
Nina, a 48-year-old school principal, recounted to CNN last May how Russian forces arrived at her school in northeastern Ukraine and forced her to hand over all history textbooks and quizzed her on the school's curriculum. She did not give her last name. 
CNN's Lauren Said-Moorhouse and Oleksandra Ochman contributed to this report 
11:44 a.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
Bakhmut remains a stronghold, says Ukraine's defense minister 
From CNN's Kostan Nechyporenko in Kyiv 
The embattled eastern city of Bakhmut is “still a stronghold,” Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov said on Sunday. 
"It’s still a symbol,” Reznikov said during a press conference in Kyiv. 
Ukraine's continuing hold over the city is perceived as a symbol of the country's resistance. In a trip to Washington DC in December, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky told US lawmakers that the "fight for Bakhmut will change the tragic story of our war for independence and of freedom.” 
Intense bombardment has left the city nearly completely destroyed, with Zelensky saying “every inch of that land is soaked in blood." 
Head of Russia's private military group Wagner, Yevgeny Prigozhin also said via Telegram on Sunday that Ukraine's defense of the city was still holding strong with "fierce battles for every street, every house, every stairwell.” 
Reznikov added that Russian troops had tried to take control of the area in the Donbas region since the summer, alleging that they lose around 500 people daily while storming it. CNN cannot independently verify that number. 
For nearly six months, Ukrainian forces have been battling Russian encroachment to keep control of the besieged territory which lies between the separatist-held cities Donetsk and Luhansk. 
10:30 a.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
Ukrainian military to start training on Leopard tanks on Monday, defense minister says 
From CNN's Kostan Nechyporenko and Stephanie Halasz 
Ukrainian troops will begin training with the Leopard tanks from Monday, Ukraine's Defense Minister Oleksiy Reznikov announced. 
Speaking to reporters during a news conference in Kyiv, he said: “We are accumulating reserves and working on training more personnel, getting the Western weapons.” 
Reznikov also warned of an upcoming Russian offensive. “We expect an offensive. It's February, and Russians love symbolism. We expect this pressure from them, and we are ready,” he said. 
But tanks are not the only weapons Ukraine needs to defend itself from enemy bombardment. According to Reznikov, it needs long-range weapons reaching 150 kilometers that must be "more effective and active." The maximum range of the current artillery provided by the West is 144 km. 
On Thursday, US officials said the US was expected to announce a new Ukraine security package worth approximately $2.2 billion that will include longer-range missiles in a first for the country. 
But these will not reach the distance Ukraine is asking for out of fear longer-ranging weapons -- like the sought after ATACMS missile -- will be used to hit targets in Russia, which Reznikov refuted. 
“I want to emphasize that we promise our partners not to use long-range systems to hit targets on Russian territory, only on the Ukrainian territory which Russians occupied,” he assured. 
Speaking of the military aid Ukraine has received, Reznikov said they had been given "almost everything" in terms of weapons except for fighter jets, which he is certain they will get. 
Ukraine is not a NATO member, but in this war has become a "NATO country de facto," he said, receiving weapons, standards and digital systems. "The only thing left to do is to be accepted in the alliance de jure,” Reznikov added. 
9:35 a.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
One person injured by Russian shelling in Kherson 
From CNN's Stephanie Halasz and Dennis Lapin 
A village in Kherson took “massive fire” early Sunday morning, according to the region's military administration. 
The northwestern village of Chornobaivka was hit by Russian shells that damaged six residential buildings, the administration said on Telegram on Sunday. 
One person was injured and hospitalized. 
Some context: Kherson was liberated from Russian control last November, but the Ukrainian victory has been short-lived as enemy attacks on the region have been relentless. In just the last few days, it has weathered over 130 strikes by rockets, artillery, mortars and tank fire across the Dnieper River from Russian forces. 
12:29 p.m. ET, February 5, 2023 
West is giving battle tanks so Ukraine can defend itself, says German chancellor 
From CNN's Stephanie Halasz 
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz has insisted that Western battle tanks will only be deployed on Ukrainian territory, brushing off accusations from the Kremlin that the decision to send advanced weapons was escalating the war. 
In an interview with Sunday newspaper Bild am Sonntag published online, Scholz said “there is consensus” the Western tanks will not be deployed on Russian territory. 
Kremlin officials have sought to cast the sending of tanks as an act of aggression against Moscow, fueling their bogus narrative that their so-called military operation is required to defend Russian interests rather than to capture Ukraine. 
Scholz said he had repeatedly told Russian President Vladimir Putin that “Russia is solely responsible for the war. Russia has unprovokedly invaded its neighbouring country in order to take over parts of Ukraine or the whole country.” 
“It fundamentally violates the European peace order…(which) is why we support Ukraine financially, humanitarianly and with weapons,” Scholz added, defending his country’s position to send Leopard 2 battle tanks to Ukraine. 
"We (and our allies) are giving battle tanks to Ukraine so that it can defend itself," he said. 
Scholz assured Germany and its allies were “carefully” working together weighing arms deliveries in a “joint approach” to prevent an escalation of the war. 
It took weeks of geopolitical squabbling before Germany bowed to mounting pressure from allies to supply its own Leopards. Last month, German Defense Minister Boris Pistorius said they had needed more time before coming to a decision as the tanks are heavy armored weapons that can be used for offensive purposes. 
Ukrainian officials have been relentless in pleading with their allies for modern battle tanks to replace their Soviet-era tanks, and are now set to receive more than 300 tanks from Western countries. 


Russia's war in Ukraine 
Follow the latest news on Russia's war in Ukraine here and read more about today's developments in the posts below. 
4:54 p.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
Rocket attacks in Dnipro kill 3 people and injure 15, according to regional official 
From Kostan Nechyporenko and Karen Smith 
Rocket attacks in the southeastern Ukrainian city of Dnipro killed at least three people and injured 15 others, according to Valentyn Reznichenko, the head of the Dnipropetrovsk regional military administration. 
“We have hit along the Dnipro. Rockets hit the industrial enterprise and the busy street next to it,” Reznichenko said on Friday evening. He added that the scale of the destruction was still being assessed. 
Among those killed was a driver for one of the city’s main bus routes, according to Ivan Vasiuchkov, a representative of the transportation department of Dnipro's city council. Vasiuchkov said on Facebook that the bus driver had finished working for the day and was heading to a bus park. 
Dnipro City Council Deputy Mayor Mykhailo Lysenko said on Friday that water interruptions might occur in the city due to the attack. 
5:03 p.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
US intelligence that Iran is sending drones to Russia is "baseless," Iranian foreign minister says 
From CNN's Mohammed Tawfeeq in Atlanta 
Iranian Foreign Minister Hossein Amirabdollahian slammed US national security adviser Jake Sullivan for accusing Iran of preparing to send hundreds of weapons-capable drones to Russia, calling the claims "baseless allegations against Iran," Iran's state-run IRNA reported on Friday. 
"Information indicates that the Iranian government is preparing to provide Russia with up to several hundred (unmanned aerial vehicles), including weapons-capable UAVs on an expedited timeline," national security adviser Jake Sullivan told reporters at the White House press briefing on Monday. 
"Our information further indicates that Iran is preparing to train Russian forces to use these UAVs, with initial training session slated in as soon as early July. It's unclear whether Iran has delivered any of these UAVs to Russia already," he added. 
According to IRNA, Amirabdollahian said, "Iran's principled and clear position against war and supporting the cessation of war is not like that of the West, which are based on the dual approach." "Iran is to continue its efforts to end the war in Ukraine and to solve the issue politically," Amirabdollahian added, according to IRNA. 
Some more context: A spokesperson at the White House National Security Council told CNN that the information Sullivan described to reporters was based on recently declassified intelligence. 
Russia looking to Iran to supply drones “speaks volumes” about the isolation of both nations from the international community and Russian President Vladimir Putin’s “problems in terms of replenishing his own defense needs,” National Security Council coordinator for strategic communications John Kirby told CNN on Thursday. 
3:25 p.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
Ukraine defense spokesperson says an estimated 70% of Russian attacks are on non-military targets 
From CNN's Karen Smith 
Ukraine’s defense ministry spokesperson says up to 70% of Russian missile strikes are on peaceful cities and non-military targets. 
Oleksandr Motuzyanyk said on Friday only 30% of Russian missile strikes are on military targets. 
“The remaining 70% of strikes are Russians deliberately attacking peaceful cities. Russia should be recognized as a terrorist country,” he said. 
He went on to say, “The only way to stop this missile terror is to destroy the missiles that Russia launches over Ukraine.” 
According to Motuzyanyk, the anti-aircraft systems worked “as well as it could” when Vinnytsia was attacked on Thursday. 
“Two missiles out of five were shot down. If we had more powerful modern anti-aircraft weapons, we could destroy more of those Russian missiles. Today we need modern air defense,” Motuzyanyk said. 
He added HIMARS are working well on the front lines and more than 30 of Russia’s military logistics facilities have been destroyed. 
2:33 p.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
UK summons Russian ambassador over reports of British national's death in Ukraine 
From CNN's Radina Gigova in London 
The UK's Foreign, Commonwealth and Development Office has summoned Russian Ambassador Andrei Kelin "to express the UK’s deep concern at reports of the death of British National Paul Urey in captivity in the non-Government controlled areas of Ukraine," FCDO said in a statement Friday. 
"I am shocked to hear reports of the death of British aid worker Paul Urey while in the custody of a Russian proxy in Ukraine. Russia must bear the full responsibility for this," UK Foreign Secretary Liz Truss said. 
Truss said Urey "was captured while undertaking humanitarian work" and that he was in Ukraine "to try and help the Ukrainian people in the face of the unprovoked Russian invasion." 
"The Russian government and its proxies are continuing to commit atrocities. Those responsible will be held to account," Truss said. "My thoughts are with Mr Urey’s family and friends at this horrendous time." 
A statement on the website of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic ombudsman Daria Morozova claimed that a British citizen whose name she gave as "Paul Johnson Anthony Dominic Urey" had been detained in April and “charged with mercenarism." Urey had been “diagnosed with a number of chronic diseases,” the statement added. 
Truss has instructed Sir Tim Barrow, second permanent FCDO under-secretary, to summon Kelin "to urge Russia to clarify the status of Mr Urey," FCDO said. 
"Sir Tim will demand that that the Russian Federation meet all its obligations under International Humanitarian Law, including by respecting and protecting all civilians," FCDO said. 
"He will make clear that the UK holds the Russian Federation responsible for the safety and welfare of civilians in the non-Government controlled areas of Ukraine, including those within the so-called Donetsk and Luhansk ‘People’s Republics’, which the United Kingdom does not recognise as independent states," it added. 
Urey had the “biggest heart,” his friend Lex Roberts told CNN on Friday. 
Few details are known surrounding Urey's death, Roberts said. He said he had spoken with Urey’s mother, who is “devastated.” 
Roberts grew up with Urey in Manchester, UK. According to Roberts, Urey had a number of health conditions including diabetes. 
CNN's Karen Smith contributed reporting to this post. 
12:41 p.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
European Commission proposes import ban on Russian gold in new sanctions package 
From CNN's Chris Liakos and Valentina DiDonato 
The European Commission has proposed an import ban on Russian gold as part of its latest package of sanctions against Russia. 
“The European Commission has today adopted a joint (High Representative-Commission) proposal for a new package of measures to maintain and strengthen the effectiveness of the EU's six wide-ranging and unprecedented packages of sanctions against Russia,” the commission said in a press release. 
The proposed package aims to also prevent EU sanctions from targeting “in any way the trade in agricultural products between third countries and Russia.” It also suggests the extension of the current EU sanctions for six months, until the next review at the end of January 2023. 
“Today's 'maintenance and alignment' package clarifies a number of provisions to strengthen legal certainty for operators and enforcement by Member States. It also further aligns the EU's sanctions with those of our allies and partners, in particular in the G7. Importantly, the package reiterates the Commission's determined stance to protect food security around the globe,” according to the press release. 
President of the European Commission Ursula von der Leyen said: “Russia's brutal war against Ukraine continues unabated. Therefore, we are proposing today to tighten our hard-hitting EU sanctions against the Kremlin, enforce them more effectively and extend them until January 2023. Moscow must continue to pay a high price for its aggression.” 
The package will still need to be discussed and adopted by the EU member states. 
12:00 p.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
Germany to provide Moldova 40 million euros as the country continues to host refugees and battles inflation 
From CNN's Nadine Schmidt in Berlin 
Germany plans to give Moldova 40 million euros ($40.2 million) in direct budgetary support to help protect the poorest people in one of Europe's poorest countries from breakneck inflation as it continues to host Ukrainian refugees, German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock said Friday. 
''Moldova was in a very critical situation,'' Baerbock said at a donor conference in Bucharest. "This small democratic republic has done everything possible to help refugees from Ukraine." 
Baerbock said that Moldova — a country of 2.5 million people sandwiched between Romania and Ukraine — is still hosting more than 70,000 Ukrainian refugees as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. 
Moldova is ''feeling the economic shockwaves of the war,'' Baerbock said, adding that the war has contributed to the country's 29% inflation rate, which is ''something many of us can hardly imagine.'' 
Germany's Foreign Office and Development Ministry will provide the 40 million euros to help the country develop renewable energy sources, Baerbock said, adding that the support must still be approved by the German parliamentary budget committee. 
10:16 a.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
Locals in Moldova village welcomed Ukrainian couple and 4 adopted children with open arms 
From CNN's Ivana Kottasová and Ana Sarbu in Popeasca, Moldova 
When Tatiana and Iuri Gavriliuc, along with their four adopted children, crossed the Ukrainian border into Moldova, they had no plan. They just knew they had to leave. 
Their home in Chornomorsk, a town near Odesa in southern Ukraine, was shelled regularly after Russian forces intensified their assault on the region in mid April. And Iuri lost his job when the local port shut down because of the war. 
When the family crossed the border in their car, Tatiana said she asked her husband where they were going. 
“And he says, ‘just straight ahead and we’ll see,'” Tatiana said with a laugh. 
Near the village of Popeasca, they saw a big sign that said, “We stand with Ukraine” in the Ukrainian language. Locals there pointed the exhausted family to a nearby refugee shelter where they have stayed ever since. 
“I miss home, but everyone is nice here. I feel like I am on holiday for the first time in my life,” Tatiana told CNN, praising the locals for helping with her children and providing anything the family needs. “But I can’t wait to go home and cook for [my family]. I really want to cook borsht. It’s very, very good here, but I want to be able to do something, because I have too much time here and I worry," she said. 
The center, which is inside an old school building with a dormitory, has toys and computers and a big playground outside where their 5-year-old daughter Alerina loves to run around and play. 
Tatiana and Iuri have six children — two biological and four adopted — and four grandchildren. The couple's older kids, a 29-year-old daughter and a 31-year-old son, are still in Ukraine along with their own families. 
“Our son is fighting for the Ukrainian army. He is stationed near Odesa,” Tatiana said. “He is tall, beautiful, young. He is defending Ukraine." 
9:59 a.m. ET, July 15, 2022 
4 injured in Mykolaiv strikes as rescue operations continue 
From CNN staff 
Rescue operations continue in the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv after four people were injured in missile strikes on Friday morning, according to Hanna Zamazeieva, the head of the Mykolaiv regional council. 
At least 10 missiles were aimed at two universities and civil infrastructure facilities, Zamazeieva said on Telegram. Residential buildings were damaged. 
All of the injured haven been taken to medical facilities for assistance. 
The strikes happened around 7:50 a.m. local time, when there were "many people on the streets," Mayor Oleksandr Syenkevych said earlier on Telegram. 
Photos on the Facebook page of the State Emergency Service of Ukraine show damaged buildings and firefighters extinguishing fires amid the rubble. 
In a separate Telegram post, Vitalii Kim, head of Mykolaiv region military administration, named the two universities hit as the Mykolaiv Pedagogical Institute and the Mykolaiv Shipbuilding Institute. 
According to Syenkevych, Mykolaiv was hit by 10 strikes overnight, causing "powerful explosions." 


December 29, 2023 - Russia launches largest air attack on Ukraine since full-scale invasion 
Our live coverage for the day has ended. Follow the latest Ukraine news or read through the updates below. 
6:49 p.m. ET, December 29, 2023 
Russia launches biggest air attack on Ukraine since invasion. Here's what you should know 
From CNN staff 
Russia launched the biggest air attack on Ukraine since the beginning of its full-scale invasion, the Ukrainian military told CNN. 
An unprecedented number of drones and missiles fired at targets across the country, killing at least 31 people and injuring more than 150 others. 
Here's what you should know: 
The victims: Viktor Kobzystyi, one of Ukraine's most celebrated basketball players who then became a coach, along with coach Anton Nikulin were killed in the Russian missile attacks early Friday, Ukrainian officials said. A 53-year-old primary school teacher was also among those killed in Zaporizhzhia on Friday, following Russia's large-scale attack on Ukraine earlier today, local authorities said. 
Where it happened: The attack targeted Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, as well as Lviv, Dnipro, Odesa, Kharkiv, Khmelnytskyi and other Ukrainian regions, the Ukrainian Foreign Ministry said. A shopping center, apartment buildings and a metro station were among the places hit, the ministry noted. Video from Dnipro shows extensive damage to a maternity hospital after a Russian missile strike early Friday. 
The weapons: Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky said Russia used “nearly every type of weapon in its arsenal” in the massive wave of missile and drone attacks. Preliminary information indicates Russia used about 158 weapons. Zelensky said on Telegram that Russia used "'Kinzhals,' S-300s, cruise missiles, and drones. Strategic bombers launched X-101/X-505 missiles.” 
Reactions: Zelensky on Friday urged the international community to respond to Russia's latest aerial assault. Additionally, Ukraine called for an urgent United Nations Security Council meeting following the attack. European officials on Friday — including the president of the European Commission, the UK Prime Minister and others — vowed to stand with Ukraine for the long run. And, US President Joe Biden said Russia’s latest aerial assault on Ukraine serves as a reminder of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s intentions in the country. Bridget Brink, US ambassador to Ukraine, called for more funding for Kyiv and the UK is sending "hundreds of air defense missiles" to Ukraine, British Defence Secretary Grant Shapps said Friday. 
An unidentified object in Poland's skies: In the early hours of Friday, “an unidentified airborne object” entered Polish airspace from Ukrainian territory, the Polish military said. Poland’s most senior military officer said that "all indications" point to the object being a Russian missile. Polish Deputy Foreign Minister Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski summoned the chargé d’affaires of the Russian Federation, Andrei Ordash, on Friday, the Polish foreign ministry said in a statement. 
More strikes: Without referring directly to the strikes early Friday, the Russian Defense Ministry said the Russian forces carried out 50 group strikes and one mass strike this week. 
Other headlines to know: Zelensky made a surprise visit to troops fighting in one of the most fiercely contested parts of the eastern Donetsk region: the ruined city of Avdiivka. A year after Zelensky secured bipartisan support from the United States for its defense against Russia's full-scale invasion, the outlook looks much more grim. A long-anticipated Ukrainian offensive in the south has made scant progress. Russia appears to have weathered international sanctions, for now, and has converted its economy into a war machine. 
5:53 p.m. ET, December 29, 2023 
Russian air defense intercepts 13 missiles over Belgorod region in attack that left 1 dead, governor says 
From CNN’s Mariya Knight 
Russia’s Ministry of Defense said on Friday that its air defense forces destroyed 13 Ukrainian missiles over Russia's Belgorod region. 
The attack was carried out using Multiple Launch Rocket Systems (MLRS), the ministry said. 
Vyacheslav Gladkov, the governor of Belgorod region, said one person was killed and four wounded in the attack and “several air targets were shot down.” 
Numerous private houses, cars and the city's water supply system were damaged, according to Gladkov. 
Alexander Bogomaz, the governor of Russia’s Bryansk region, reported on Friday that air defense forces intercepted nine Ukrainian drones over his region, adding that “an unmanned reconnaissance aircraft complex was shot down over the Starodubsky municipal district.” 
Bogomaz said there were no casualties or damage following the incident. 
6:29 p.m. ET, December 29, 2023 
Poland summons Russian charge d'affaires over airspace incident 
From Svitlana Vlasova, CNN's Chris Liakos and Mariya Knight 
Polish Deputy Foreign Minister Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski summoned the chargé d’affaires of the Russian Federation, Andrei Ordash, on Friday, following "an unidentified airborne object" entering Polish airspace early Friday morning, the Polish foreign ministry said in a statement. 
According to the statement, Ordash was handed a note requesting an explanation for the violation of Polish airspace, which the ministry said was a Russian missile. Ordash said the note "contained only unfounded accusations,” adding that “the Polish side refused to provide evidence that the missile was of Russian origin,” according to Russian state media RIA Novosti. 
Ordash went on to say that Russia “will not give explanations” concerning the incident “until concrete evidence is presented." 
This post was updated with comments from the Russian chargé d’affaires. 
3:17 p.m. ET, December 29, 2023 
Teacher among those killed in Russia's assault on Ukraine, according to education officials 
From Svitlana Vlasova 
A 53-year-old primary school teacher was among those killed in Zaporizhzhia on Friday, following Russia's large-scale attack on Ukraine earlier today, local authorities said. 
Education Minister Oksen Lisovyi offered condolences to the teacher's family and friends in a Facebook post, calling it "a tragedy for the entire educational family." 
"There are no words to express our condolences over the unexpected and tragic death of a woman, a teacher with a capital T, who, through her actions and deeds, her mind, raised many generations of students, skilfully taught them wisdom and responsibility," the school where the teacher, Oksana Vorobyova, taught in Zaporizhzhia said in a post on Facebook, describing her as "wise, balanced, sensitive, kind," who "never forgot about the problems of those around her." 
"She was a very energetic person, a great hard worker, and a loving mother. It is with pain in our hearts that we acknowledge that we will never again receive her support or benefit from her wise advice," her colleagues said in the post. 
3:05 p.m. ET, December 29, 2023 
Zelensky urges world to respond to "latest act of terror" from Russia 
From Svitlana Vlasova 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky on Friday urged the international community to respond to Russia's latest aerial assault on Ukraine — the biggest since the start of Russia's full-scale invasion in February 2022. 
"It is important that the world responds to this latest act of terror. Many leaders have already expressed their support for Ukraine and Ukrainians today, and I am grateful to everyone," Zelensky said in his daily address, thanking those who helped in boosting his country's air defenses. 
Zelensky added that he will continue to "strengthen our air defense" and vowed to keep working to "bring the war" back to Russia. 
The Ukrainian president also thanked emergency services and staff who assisted in rescue operations following the aerial attacks in many parts of the country Friday. 
The attacks left at least 31 people dead and over 150 injured, damaging civilian infrastructure. 
"More than 100 private houses were destroyed or damaged, (as well as) 45 high-rise buildings, schools, two churches, hospitals, a maternity hospital, many commercial and warehouse premises," Zelensky said, offering his condolences to the families and friends of the victims. 
2:22 p.m. ET, December 29, 2023 
Ukraine calls for urgent UN Security Council meeting following Russia's air attack 
From Svitlana Vlasova 
Ukraine has called for an urgent United Nations Security Council meeting following Russia’s biggest air attack on the country since the beginning of its full-scale invasion, according to Ukrainian Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba. 
"Ukraine, along with three dozen UN Member States, requested that the Ecuadorian Presidency convene an urgent UNSC meeting to address Russia’s missile and drone attack against Ukraine, which resulted in multiple civilian casualties and heavy destruction of civilian infrastructure," Kuleba wrote in a post on X, formerly known as Twitter, on Friday. 
The presidency of the UN Security Council rotates on a monthly basis, and Ecuador holds the responsibility for December. 
2:20 p.m. ET, December 29, 2023 
Analysis: Ukraine faces a grim 2024 as Western support wanes and Putin’s relentless war machine grinds on 
Analysis from CNN's Tim Lister 
A year after Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelensky secured bipartisan support from the United States for its defense against Russia's full-scale invasion, the outlook looks much more grim. A long-anticipated Ukrainian offensive in the south has made scant progress. Russia appears to have weathered international sanctions, for now, and has converted its economy into a war machine. 
The mood in Moscow seems grimly determined: The goals of the “special military operation” will be achieved, and the fighting will continue until that happens. 
As the long front line becomes ever more calcified, the Kremlin senses greater skepticism among Kyiv’s Western backers that Ukraine can recover the 17% of its territory still occupied by Russian forces. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin is relishing the much more partisan atmosphere in Washington, where many in the Republican Party are questioning the purpose of sending Ukraine another $61 billion worth of aid as requested by President Joe Biden's administration, assessing that it will achieve little on the battlefield. 
At his first year-end news conference since the conflict began, Putin scoffed: “Ukraine produces almost nothing today, everything is coming from the West, but the free stuff is going to run out some day, and it seems it already is.” 
Zelensky — who, by his own recent admission, is tired — has an ever-harder job as Ukraine’s chief salesman, with events in the Middle East diverting attention from Ukraine as the number-one international crisis. 
On the first anniversary of the invasion, he predicted that “2023 will be the year of our victory!” He’s unlikely to make the same optimistic forecast for the coming year. 
"All indications" are that Russian missile flew over Poland, senior Polish military official says 
From CNN's Antonia Mortensen 
Poland’s most senior military officer said that "all indications" point to the airborne object that flew through Polish airspace on Friday being a Russian missile. 
According to the chief of the General Staff, Gen. Wiesław Kukuła, radar indicates that a Russian missile entered and then left Polish airspace, the official Polish news agency PAP said. 
"It was tracked by us on radar and also left the airspace. We have radar and allied confirmation of this," said Kukula. 
"Polish airspace was violated by an object detected by our systems. I want to assure you of good coordination and cooperation; both Polish and our allies’ systems were activated," according to the head of the Ministry of National Defense, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz. 
The extensive Russian attacks on Ukraine – some of which were aimed at locations close to the border with Poland — had not been a surprise, said Gen. Maciej Klisz, the operational commander of the Polish Armed Forces. "We had both national and allied planes in the air. Therefore, the entire development of the situation was monitored by the operational command since late at night yesterday." 
Remember: In November 2022, a “Russian-made” missile struck NATO member Poland, killing two people. The missile landed outside the rural Polish village of Przewodow, close to the Ukrainian border. 


What is published in NATO Review does not constitute the official position or policy of NATO or member governments. NATO Review seeks to inform and promote debate on security issues. The views expressed by authors are their own. 
The consequences of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine for international security – NATO and beyond 
07 July 2022 
Listen to this article 
0:00 
February 24, 2022, is likely to engrave itself on the history template of the contemporary world. Russia’s unprovoked, unjustified and barbaric invasion of Ukraine is not only a manifestation of a huge security danger that has shattered peace in Europe. 
More structurally, it has broken the entire security architecture built patiently on the continent over many decades, including international commitments agreed in the last 30 years. As the top UK general recently observed, it is dangerous to assume that the war on Ukraine is a limited conflict. This could be “our 1937 moment“, and everything possible must be done in order to stop territorial expansion by force, thereby averting a war similar to the one that ravaged Europe 80 years ago. Mobilising our resources must start today. 
This is also a war against the West 
The magnitude of damage is immense and still increasing. Ukrainians (military and civilians alike) are being killed simply because they are Ukrainians. Whole cities – like Mariupol – are being razed to the ground. Evident atrocities fitting the criteria of war crimes are being perpetrated and accompanied by genocidal talk on Russian state TV. Hundreds of thousands of people, including children, have been forcefully deported to Russia. Over six million (at the time of writing) have had to flee Ukraine; many more have been internally displaced. Hospitals, infrastructure, cultural treasures, private homes and industrial centres are either destroyed or pillaged, with stolen goods being sent to Russia in an organised manner. 
The suffering of Ukraine presents a moral challenge to Europe and the world. Human rights and the UN Charter have been trampled upon and our values mocked. Indifference is simply not an option. As convincingly explained by Nicholas Tenzer: this is a war against the West too. 
According to its own terminology, Putin’s regime has chosen confrontation with the “collective West”, irrespective of the costs for Russia itself. All efforts comprising security and confidence-building measures, or institutional arrangements designed to preserve peace, suddenly look very fragile when faced with blunt force. After many months of Moscow engaging in sham dialogue and blatantly lying to other countries and institutions, including NATO and the OSCE, all trust has been eroded. Moreover, by creating economic shocks in the energy markets and weaponising famine as a political instrument, Russia has further globalised the consequences of its war. 
Russian threats 
Russia has also purposefully raised the level of risk for the possible use of nuclear weapons, the main goal primarily being to discourage Western Allies from offering military support to Ukraine and to instil fear in decision-makers. A long-held taboo that made an actual application of nuclear force unthinkable has been verbally discarded. While many experts calculate that risk to be low - not higher than five percent - Putin and his aides have chosen to abandon the rational caution exercised by the majority of his Soviet predecessors. Compared to Cold War practice, today, Kremlin propagandists and officials engage in highly irresponsible rhetoric advocating for the use of Russia’s nuclear arsenal against Ukraine, and possibly even against NATO states. This is backed by exercises (at least two this year) openly testing the Russian military’s ability to fire nuclear warheads at Western targets and protect Russia from possible counter-strikes. The Russian president has even shown his willingness to bring Belarus into the nuclear equation. Such brinkmanship has contributed to the return of nuclear arms into the power competition on a global stage. 
With or without a nuclear threat dimension, Russia’s neighbours already have valid reasons to fear the Russian predator. They feel that, if not stopped in and by Ukraine, Putin may entertain aggression against other territories. The historic decision by both Finland and Sweden to apply for NATO membership points to the gravity of this threat. Small countries, such as Moldova and Georgia, but also Moscow’s formal allies such as Kazakhstan, may fear becoming Putin’s next target. The Kremlin has not made any attempt to assuage these fears, but has instead amplified them via direct menaces, propaganda and intimidation levers. Latest examples include curtailing gas supplies for political reasons, violating the airspace of a NATO country, threatening Lithuania, and using economic blackmail against Collective Security Treaty Organization member, Kazakhstan. 
International response – good and not so good news 
NATO and the European Union have, to a large extent, responded effectively in the first months of the war. US leadership has once again proven essential in successfully mobilising international efforts, especially in coordinating military support to Ukraine. NATO’s response to the war, balancing increasingly strong support to Ukraine with a justified reluctance to avoid open conflict with Russia, has been more or less vindicated. The majority of European countries turned to the tried and tested protective security umbrella of NATO, backed by American military capabilities. The G7 and EU have proven agile in tightening sanctions. 
But, as the aggression continues, with Russia concentrating its efforts on gaining control of eastern and southern Ukraine via a war of attrition, Western unity is being tested. Divergent interpretations over sanctions that affect the transport of prohibited goods to Kaliningrad illustrate this problem. 
The United Nations and the OSCE have not been able to offer meaningful responses, mainly due to the paralysing effect of Russia’s veto. Moreover, solidarity with Ukraine is not yet universal among all UN members. 
Russia's long-term prospects are dim, but the threat is present 
The myth of the invincible Russian military machine has evaporated in the space of a few weeks. The initial goals of the invasion have clearly not been achieved. Russian forces had to withdraw from the vicinity of Kyiv and were beaten off in many other locations. Ukrainian bravery and excellent use of limited resources (reinforced by foreign assistance) have so far proven a strong match against the badly led, poorly motivated and organised opponent, who are also experiencing logistic and technical problems, like faulty equipment. Corruption, a disease at the heart of the Russian state, displayed itself on a grand scale in the conduct of the military operation. Russia’s human losses are enormous and, in spite of censorship, becoming known to the Russian public. 
After more than four months of fighting, it is Russia that is experiencing manpower shortages. Fearing protests, the Kremlin is reluctant to call for mobilisation and is forced to take extraordinary steps (e.g. extending the age limit for volunteers ready to join the war), opting for a covert form of recruitment, like through the use of reservists. Numerous cases of conscription offices being set on fire in Russia suggest strongly that many young people are opposed to being sent to the frontlines in Ukraine. Almost four million Russians have travelled away from Russia so far in 2022, many choosing not to return for the time being. It is the largest such exodus since the Bolshevik revolution and could result in an enormous country-wide brain drain; something that is already being experienced in the IT sector. 
Furthermore, the war has proven costly. On 27 May, Finance Minister Siluanov admitted that “money, huge resources are needed for the special operation”. He also confirmed that 8 trillion roubles (USD $120b) were required for the stimulus budget. Sanctions are starting to bite and will set the Russian economy - which is not able to produce a huge range of goods without foreign technology or parts – back for decades. Overall, unemployment is set to rise while GDP is unlikely to grow. 
Putin has turned Russia into an international pariah and the country will not recover its reputation for a long time. In spite of the totalitarian nature of the Russian political system today, some signs of dissent (even amongst high ranking diplomats) show a growing recognition of these facts. As one astute Russian expert put it, Putin has “amputated Russia’s future”. Russia is bound to be a weaker, less influential actor for the foreseeable future. 
But barring Putin’s sudden departure - which would trigger a political transformation in Moscow - Russia will still present a dangerous threat to security in Europe. The regime, led by a delusional and ageing dictator, is prone to irrational decision-making. But the ruthless conduct of the military campaign (e.g. indiscriminate use of blanket shelling) means that even incompetent Russian forces can achieve gains against the Ukrainian military, though it is being modernised at record pace. 
A transformative Madrid Summit, but the clock is ticking 
Ukraine’s ability to contain Russian aggression will shape the security environment for years to come. At its Summit in Madrid in June 2022, NATO recognised this and offered an upgraded package of support. The volume and speed with which more sophisticated weapons systems (including heavy artillery, missile systems, armoured vehicles, and air defence systems) are supplied to Ukraine in the coming weeks will be decisive in preventing Russia from overrunning Ukraine’s defences. The onus is on individual Allies to ensure such help now. 
Special funding assistance will be required for long-term training and the modernisation of Ukrainian forces, de facto bringing them to NATO standards. This is necessary, as Ukrainian weapon stocks composed of Soviet-standards equipment are depleted, and availability of such arms outside Ukraine is limited too. Crowdfunding military equipment for Ukraine – already successful in Lithuania – shows that the general international public is sympathetic and wants to play its part in this process. To help Kyiv to counterbalance Russia’s size advantages and scorched earth tactics, Allies should consider more military exercises to show NATO’s readiness and strength. Creative solutions are also quickly needed to undermine the Russian blockade of Ukrainian Black Sea ports, facilitating the export of grain. 
While the NATO-Russia Founding Act of 1997 – though effectively torn to shreds by Russia – was not formally revoked at the Summit, any self-restrictions which NATO took on as part of the agreement should now be considered null and void. Crucially, Allies have finally attributed responsibility where it lies, calling Russia “the most significant and direct threat to Allies’ security” in their new Strategic Concept. 
Putin’s war has not yet tested the credibility of NATO’s Article 5 collective defence guarantees. Thus far, the very existence of Article 5, coupled with NATO’s Enhanced Forward Presence (which now includes more than 40 000 forces under direct NATO’s operational command), have offered sufficient deterrence. But Putin’s increasingly irrational behaviour together with Moscow’s readiness to use the most destructive missiles and weapons systems against foreign territory targets (something practiced in Syria) in the immediate vicinity of NATO territory creates a new reality. Moscow has shown its readiness to use indiscriminate force for no justifiable military reasons and to engage in war crimes, all while Putin openly discusses the reclamation of lands held by tsarist Russia. Not surprisingly, NATO Allies bordering Russia are concerned by the potential loss – even temporary - of parts of their territory, and having seen the obliteration of Mariupol and Kharkiv, have become alarmed by direct missile threats to their cities and critical infrastructure. 
A more ruthless form of deterrence, by denial rather than punishment, based on a beefed-up forward defence seems the only appropriate response. The new NATO Strategic Concept, which was adopted in Madrid on 29 June, explicitly takes NATO in that direction (para. 21). Substantial and persistent military presence, backed by the prepositioning of equipment and strategic pre-assigning of combat forces is now part of the new NATO Force Model. The goal of massively increasing the availability of troops at high readiness is essential for effective deterrence. But concrete pledges of national contributions, like those announced by US President Biden on 29 June, must follow quickly from all Allies. 
The credibility of collective defence will also depend on the quick implementation of already-announced pledges for increased defence spending and the prioritisation of defence planning efforts based on the scenario of large-scale conflict in Europe. In this context, appropriate stockpiles of military equipment are essential. As current levels are eminently insufficient, procurement practices and defence industry production capacity must be adapted, and stocks augmented quickly. 
Paragraphs 28 and 29 of the new Strategic Concept leave no ambiguity on the continued role played by nuclear weapons as the ultimate guarantee of Allied security. But to disable the corrosive effect of Moscow’s nuclear blackmail against Allies, a more robust declaratory nuclear policy by NATO is in order. Moreover, the use of nuclear weapons against targets in Ukraine – however improbable - cannot be ruled out. Allies should thus consider, as a matter of urgency, persuasive signalling to Russia about possible conventional military responses (e.g. a disabling of Russian military targets in the Black Sea) that would come as a result of such acts. Only the certainty of retaliation can dissuade the Kremlin from seriously contemplating such an option. 
Conclusion 
Concrete decisions will matter more than any new organisational organigrams, and sophisticated plans or strategies are valuable only as long as they are made real. Russia has started to relish its role as a predator, and it is using brutal force to achieve its imperialist goals. Even weakened, Russia remains capable of inflicting heavy damage upon others. Only strong deterrence and credible force will be able to stop it. Counter-intuitively, preparing for a possible war with Russia is the best approach to prevent it. 
The collective West (and specifically NATO) can count on its likely ability to contain an aggressive Russia, at least in the long run. But Ukraine’s defeat of the aggressor is the indispensable goal in this context as it would severely limit Russia’s ability to attack other countries, provide time to augment collective defence and consolidate international unity against aggression. Madrid Summit decisions have supplied key elements of the required strategy. There is no time to lose in implementing them. 


EU leaders call for ‘immediate humanitarian pause’ in Gaza – as it happened 
Leaders at summit agree text that says pause should lead to ‘sustainable ceasefire’ 
Live feed 
EU leaders call for 'immediate humanitarian pause leading to a sustainable ceasefire' in Gaza 
The European Council president, Charles Michel, said European leaders have agreed on a unified statement on the Middle East. 
“The EU calls for an immediate humanitarian pause leading to a sustainable ceasefire. Full & safe humanitarian access into Gaza is essential to provide the civilian population with life-saving assistance in a catastrophic situation in Gaza,” he said. 
In the text agreed by the EU’s 27 heads of state and government, the leaders declare: 
The European Council calls for an immediate humanitarian pause leading to a sustainable ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages and the provision of humanitarian assistance. 
The statement also condemns Hamas “in the strongest possible terms for its brutal and indiscriminate terrorist attacks across Israel on 7 October 2023, recognising Israel’s right to defend itself in line with international law and international humanitarian law, and calling for the immediate release of all hostages without any precondition.” 
It adds: 
The European Council is deeply concerned about the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza and its disproportionate effect on civilians, particularly children, as well as the imminent risk of famine caused by the insufficient entry of aid into Gaza. 
Full, rapid, safe and unhindered humanitarian access into and throughout the Gaza Strip via all routes is essential to provide the civilian population with life-saving assistance and basic services at scale. 
The conclusions also note that “immediate measures should be taken to prevent any further population displacement and provide safe shelter to the population to ensure that civilians are protected at all times.” 
Summary of the day 
Heads of state and government from the EU’s 27 members met in Brussels for the first day of their summit. 
Addressing the situation in the Middle East, the leaders called “for an immediate humanitarian pause leading to a sustainable ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages and the provision of humanitarian assistance.” 
The leaders condemned Hamas and said they are “deeply concerned about the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza and its disproportionate effect on civilians, particularly children, as well as the imminent risk of famine caused by the insufficient entry of aid into Gaza.” 
The leaders also discussed the issue of using windfall profits of frozen Russian assets. Ursula von der Leyen, the European Commission president, “there is a strong support to use” the profits “for military purposes for Ukraine.” 
The EU leaders agreed that “further to the submission of the draft negotiating frameworks for Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, the European Council invites the Council to swiftly adopt them and to take work forward without delay.” 
They also decided to open accession negotiations with Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
Von der Leyen said there is a proposal “to increase tariffs on Russian and Belarusian imports of cereals, oil seeds and derived products.” 
The Ukrainian president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, addressed EU leaders via videoconference, calling for more help with air defences and ammunition, as well as progress on Ukraine’s path toward European integration. 
The Hungarian prime minister, Viktor Orbán, broke ranks with his European counterparts and congratulated Vladimir Putin on his “re-election”. 
The European Commission president, Ursula von der Leyen, said that she is glad leaders opened the way to using some of the revenue from frozen Russian assets to provide funding for military equipment for Ukraine. 
“We can expect to collect around €3bn for 2024, and similar amounts in the future years,” von der Leyen said. 
She later noted in response to a question that “there is a strong support to use” the profits “for military purposes for Ukraine.” 
“I told the leaders that if we are swift now in concluding the proposal, we could disperse the first billion to Ukraine on 1 July,” she said. 
The Commission chief also said that there is a proposal “to increase tariffs on Russian and Belarusian imports of cereals, oil seeds and derived products.” 
Addressing the issue of European defence, von der Leyen said member states have already boosted spending “but we have to strengthen Europe’s defence industrial base.” 
“We do not only need to spend more – we need to spend better, and we need to spend European,” she stressed. 
On the Middle East, she said “we are on the verge of famine, a catastrophic humanitarian situation. Full rapid, safe and unhindered humanitarian access into Gaza via all routes is essential. 500 trucks or equivalent a day need to enter Gaza on land or by air and sea.” 
She added: 
“I think the unity was very strongly felt: acknowledgement that Israel has the right to do everything possible that 7 October will never happen again within the boundaries of international law and international humanitarian law but it has also the duty to do everything possible to protect civilian life. If you look at the conclusions, they are explicit on that one.” 
'There is a humanitarian tragedy,' Michel says 
Speaking of the Middle East, Charles Michel said that “it was extremely important to send a very powerful and united message on this important question and challenge.” 
He reiterated that “we condemn in the strongest possible terms” the October 7 attack on Israel. 
“We are also absolutely determined to support all possible efforts to allow the humanitarian access,” Michel said. 
He added: 
There is a humanitarian tragedy. 
We believe in the international law, we believe in the international humanitarian law, and that’s why that everything must be done to convince, to make sure that there is a real possibility for more humanitarian access,” the European Council chief said. 
Michel said we take note of decisions made regarding the financing of UNRWA and that leaders agree on the “essential” role of the organisation. 
He also said that “we call on the government of Israel not to launch a ground operation in Rafah.” 
Speaking to reporters, the European Council president, Charles Michel, said leaders made very important decisions, pointing to a text agreed on the issue of using windfall profits from frozen Russian assets. 
It shows that we are determined to bring more support to Ukraine, he said. 
Speaking of European defence, Michel said we have a paradigm shift. 
Leaders looked at various options for funding, and there is very broad support for the idea of working with the European Investment Bank to mobilise more resources, he said. We want to invest more and better, and reduce fragmentation, Michel stressed. 
And here is the text on security and defence, agreed following talks among EU leaders: 
Charles Michel, the European Council president, has said that the EU “must increase our defence readiness and put economies on a war footing to match the urgency of the threat.” 
“We have 3 goals: Support Ukraine right now; Spend better and faster together; Easier access to public & private financing for the defence sector,” he added. 
Olaf Scholz, the German chancellor, has congratulated Bosnia and Herzegovina, writing: “the European peace project is growing - a clear sign in favour of a strong Europe.” 
The EU leaders agreed that “further to the submission of the draft negotiating frameworks for Ukraine and the Republic of Moldova, the European Council invites the Council to swiftly adopt them and to take work forward without delay.” 
EU leaders call for 'immediate humanitarian pause leading to a sustainable ceasefire' in Gaza 
The European Council president, Charles Michel, said European leaders have agreed on a unified statement on the Middle East. 
“The EU calls for an immediate humanitarian pause leading to a sustainable ceasefire. Full & safe humanitarian access into Gaza is essential to provide the civilian population with life-saving assistance in a catastrophic situation in Gaza,” he said. 
In the text agreed by the EU’s 27 heads of state and government, the leaders declare: 
The European Council calls for an immediate humanitarian pause leading to a sustainable ceasefire, the unconditional release of all hostages and the provision of humanitarian assistance. 
The statement also condemns Hamas “in the strongest possible terms for its brutal and indiscriminate terrorist attacks across Israel on 7 October 2023, recognising Israel’s right to defend itself in line with international law and international humanitarian law, and calling for the immediate release of all hostages without any precondition.” 
It adds: 
The European Council is deeply concerned about the catastrophic humanitarian situation in Gaza and its disproportionate effect on civilians, particularly children, as well as the imminent risk of famine caused by the insufficient entry of aid into Gaza. 
Full, rapid, safe and unhindered humanitarian access into and throughout the Gaza Strip via all routes is essential to provide the civilian population with life-saving assistance and basic services at scale. 
The conclusions also note that “immediate measures should be taken to prevent any further population displacement and provide safe shelter to the population to ensure that civilians are protected at all times.” 
Roberta Metsola, the president of the European parliament, has congratulated Bosnia and Herzegovina. 
Leaders decide to open accession negotiations with Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Charles Michel, the European Council president, has announced that “the European Council has just decided to open accession negotiations with Bosnia and Herzegovina.” 
“Today’s decision is a key step forward on your EU path. Now the hard work needs to continue so Bosnia and Herzegovina steadily advances, as your people want,” he added. 
The changes in the draft conclusions on Ukraine and security and defence are minor, according to sources. 
Wording on use of windfall profits from frozen Russian assets has been changed. 
Earlier text said: “The European Council reviewed progress on the next concrete steps towards directing extraordinary revenues stemming from Russia’s immobilised assets for the benefit of Ukraine, including possibly for funding military support”. 
Now, the last clause of the paragraph reads: “including the possibility of funding military support”. 


Author 
Visiting Fellow at the ANU Centre for European Studies, Australian National University 
Disclosure statement 
Peter Tesch was Australian ambassador to the Russian Federation from 2016 to 2019. 
Partners 
It is no surprise the second anniversary of Russian President Vladimir Putin’s war against Ukraine generated so much commentary. What is surprising, though, is that Kremlin propaganda remains so prevalent in what purports to be analysis. 
This week, the ABC was forced to defend a documentary it aired on the conflict, which quoted Russian soldiers justifying the country’s invasion. Ukraine’s ambassador to Australia said it repeated “blatant lies” coming from the Kremlin. 
But this is not the only example. Among the other Russian assertions frequently repeated by commentators are that the West is at fault for the war and the root cause lies in “NATO expansion”. Proponents of this line recycle the tired narrative that the West does not understand Russia’s world view and has failed to accommodate its “legitimate security interests”. 
Another persistent line is that the West’s failure to understand Russia’s thinking is to blame for the tensions that have marked relations between the two sides for the past 20 years. 
On the contrary, Putin has been clear he is intent on recovering Russia’s “historic lands” in his war with Ukraine, in the process wantonly breaching security guarantees Moscow had given Kyiv twice in the 1990s. 
There is no misunderstanding Putin’s threat-infused nostalgia for “the legacy of the Yalta and Potsdam conferences” of 1945, either. This was when the US, UK and Soviet Union carved up the territories of the vanquished following the second world war and demarcated their respective spheres of influence, denying tens of millions of people any say in their own future. 
Accusing the West of sowing democracy on Russia’s doorstep today ignores the reality that, freed from 50 years of Moscow’s repressive domination, the countries of eastern Europe unequivocally saw their future security and prosperity as part of the European Union and NATO. 
While they have been understandably silent on the matter since February 2022, some of Russia’s leading foreign and defence policy thinkers – none of them Kremlin opponents – previously dismissed the idea that “NATO expansion” represented a threat to Russian security. 
Defence analyst Alexander Khramchikhin argued in the authoritative Military Industrial Courier in October 2021 that claims NATO was preparing to attack Russia were “shameful”. If NATO was preparing for war with Russia, he added, it was doing so defensively. 
Similarly, Andrei Kortunov, formerly the influential head of the Russian International Affairs Council, argued on the now-shuttered Carnegie Moscow office website in January 2021, 
former Soviet republics have been desperately storming the gates of the Euro-Atlantic security structures, and the West, fully aware that accepting these new member states would weaken NATO, not strengthen it, had to respond to this pressure. 
Putin’s own policies have also substantially worsened Russia’s strategic circumstances, not least by driving Finland and Sweden to pursue NATO membership. Moreover, NATO’s recent policies (including generally declining military expenditure from 1990–2014) in no way pointed to hostile intent towards Russia. 
Putin’s war aims were not limited 
In a similar vein, some believe Putin’s aims in Ukraine are limited to securing disarmament and neutrality, as well as a special status for Crimea and the eastern region of Donbas. Advocates of this line implicitly condone Putin’s use of military force to unilaterally recast post-second world war borders. 
It is clear serious planning and intelligence failures misled Putin and his narrow cohort of advisers into thinking Ukraine would fold in days. A history autodidact, Putin presumably had no interest in occupying western Ukraine, knowing this traditionally had been Catholic Polish and Lithuanian territory and never part of the Orthodox Slavic lands of Great Russia. 
We can reasonably surmise Putin’s goal was the swift capture of Kyiv, the political or physical elimination of President Volodymyr Zelensky, and the occupation of Ukraine east of the Dnipro River (and potentially the Black Sea coastline, including Odesa, founded by Putin’s heroine, Catherine the Great). 
Thus, Putin would replicate the “gathering of the lands” of one of his distant predecessors, Tsar Ivan III, and consign what was left of western Ukraine to the eternal financial responsibility of Europe. 
The revised map of Ukraine that former Russian President Dmitry Medvedev introduced on state television earlier this month makes clear this intent. 
Confident assertions, whether by the Kremlin or outside analysts, that Russia’s economy has withstood Western sanctions are also premature. 
Sanctions work over the long term, and Russia’s much-touted growth rates mainly reflect its increased investment in the military and defence sectors. Credible commentators believe Russia’s economy shows clear signs of overheating. Only time will tell. 
What is true, though, is some countries are conniving with Russia to exploit loopholes and circumvent sanctions. Furthermore, many analysts are silent on the fact that Russia – a permanent member of the UN Security Council – is flouting the very sanctions it helped impose on North Korea by sourcing weapons and military material from Pyongyang. 
Aiding Ukraine is not a distraction 
Another myth being propagated in the West is the contention that aiding Ukraine diminishes US capacity to deter China in the Indo-Pacific. 
It is not a zero-sum game. It is hard to see how unsettling allies and partners by dumping democracies – including one fighting for the very principles upon which the US was founded – would be a deterrent to China. 
Neither Russia nor China has allies as we understand the term. Both see alliances as directed against someone or something, rather than being mutually reinforcing arrangements underpinned by common beliefs and values. 
Both Putin and Chinese President Xi Jinping seek to undermine confidence in US leadership and commitment through falsehoods and propaganda. We must be vigilant and forthrightly contest these efforts, regardless of the competing demands on governments and the distractions of our often fractious democracies. 


The following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to the Russo-Ukrainian War: 
Russo-Ukrainian War – ongoing international conflict between Russia, alongside Russian-backed separatists, and Ukraine, which began in February 2014. Following Ukraine's Revolution of Dignity, Russia annexed Crimea from Ukraine and supported pro-Russian separatists fighting the Ukrainian military in the Donbas war. The first eight years of conflict also included naval incidents, cyberwarfare, and heightened political tensions. In February 2022, Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
An alphabetical list of subjects related to the war. Articles related to a subject are listed alphabetically under the main subject. 
A chronological list of articles about the period immediately prelude to war; for earlier articles see the Historical background section. 
The following section includes forced movement (e.g. ethnic cleansing) and crisis movement (e.g. war refugees/evacuees). 
A chronological outline of events. Articles related to particular events are listed alphabetically under the main article for the event they are related to. 
A chronological outline of military operations. Articles related to particular battles are listed alphabetically under the main article for the operation they are related to. 
When a event or topic covers more than one year the article appears in the year the event started. 
An alphabetical list of individuals significantly related to the war. Individuals are listed under their nationality, not political alignment. 
^ "What Is An Oblast?", World Atlas, 2017, archived from the original on 25 December 2022, retrieved 25 December 2022 


A lonely radio nerd. A poet. Vladimir Putin’s crackdown sweeps up ordinary Russians 
1 of 8 | 
FILE - Artyom Kamardin, left, and Yegor Shtovba, right, stand behind a glass in a cage in a courtroom in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 28, 2023. Artyom Kamardin was given a 7-year prison sentence Thursday for reciting verses against Russia’s war in Ukraine, a tough punishment that comes during a relentless Kremlin crackdown on dissent. Yegor Shtovba, who participated in the event and recited Kamardin’s verses, was sentenced to 5 1/2 years on the same charges. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
2 of 8 | 
Viktoria Petrova is escorted by police for a hearing in a court in St. Petersburg, Russia, Friday, March 3, 2023. Petrova was sentenced to involuntary treatment in a psychiatric facility after she condemned Russian officials for sending troops into Ukraine on social media. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown. (AP Photo) 
Read More 
3 of 8 | 
FILE - Police officers detain a woman during a protest in support of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny in Ulan-Ude, the regional capital of Buryatia, a region near the Russia-Mongolia border, Russia, Wednesday, April 21, 2021. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
4 of 8 | 
FILE - Police officers detains a demonstrator with a poster that reads: “Freedom for Alexei Navalny,” in Pushkinskaya Square in Moscow on Sunday, June 4, 2023. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
5 of 8 | 
FILE - Police detain a man who wants to lay flowers paying last respects to Alexei Navalny at a large boulder from the Solovetsky islands, where the first camp of the Gulag political prison system was established, in St. Petersburg, Russia on Saturday, Feb. 17, 2024. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
6 of 8 | 
FILE - Riot police detain a demonstrator during a protest against mobilization in Moscow on Wednesday, Sept. 21, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
7 of 8 | 
FILE - Police detain people protesting Russia’s attack on Ukraine in St. Petersburg, Russia, Tuesday, March. 1, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
8 of 8 | 
FILE - Russian policemen detain a demonstrator protesting mobilization in St. Petersburg, Russia, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
A lonely radio nerd. A poet. Vladimir Putin’s crackdown sweeps up ordinary Russians 
1 of 8 | 
FILE - Artyom Kamardin, left, and Yegor Shtovba, right, stand behind a glass in a cage in a courtroom in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 28, 2023. Artyom Kamardin was given a 7-year prison sentence Thursday for reciting verses against Russia’s war in Ukraine, a tough punishment that comes during a relentless Kremlin crackdown on dissent. Yegor Shtovba, who participated in the event and recited Kamardin’s verses, was sentenced to 5 1/2 years on the same charges. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
1 of 8 
FILE - Artyom Kamardin, left, and Yegor Shtovba, right, stand behind a glass in a cage in a courtroom in Moscow, Russia, Thursday, Dec. 28, 2023. Artyom Kamardin was given a 7-year prison sentence Thursday for reciting verses against Russia’s war in Ukraine, a tough punishment that comes during a relentless Kremlin crackdown on dissent. Yegor Shtovba, who participated in the event and recited Kamardin’s verses, was sentenced to 5 1/2 years on the same charges. (AP Photo, File) 
Viktoria Petrova is escorted by police for a hearing in a court in St. Petersburg, Russia, Friday, March 3, 2023. Petrova was sentenced to involuntary treatment in a psychiatric facility after she condemned Russian officials for sending troops into Ukraine on social media. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown. (AP Photo) 
Read More 
2 of 8 
Viktoria Petrova is escorted by police for a hearing in a court in St. Petersburg, Russia, Friday, March 3, 2023. Petrova was sentenced to involuntary treatment in a psychiatric facility after she condemned Russian officials for sending troops into Ukraine on social media. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown. (AP Photo) 
FILE - Police officers detain a woman during a protest in support of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny in Ulan-Ude, the regional capital of Buryatia, a region near the Russia-Mongolia border, Russia, Wednesday, April 21, 2021. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
3 of 8 
FILE - Police officers detain a woman during a protest in support of jailed opposition leader Alexei Navalny in Ulan-Ude, the regional capital of Buryatia, a region near the Russia-Mongolia border, Russia, Wednesday, April 21, 2021. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
FILE - Police officers detains a demonstrator with a poster that reads: “Freedom for Alexei Navalny,” in Pushkinskaya Square in Moscow on Sunday, June 4, 2023. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
4 of 8 
FILE - Police officers detains a demonstrator with a poster that reads: “Freedom for Alexei Navalny,” in Pushkinskaya Square in Moscow on Sunday, June 4, 2023. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
FILE - Police detain a man who wants to lay flowers paying last respects to Alexei Navalny at a large boulder from the Solovetsky islands, where the first camp of the Gulag political prison system was established, in St. Petersburg, Russia on Saturday, Feb. 17, 2024. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
5 of 8 
FILE - Police detain a man who wants to lay flowers paying last respects to Alexei Navalny at a large boulder from the Solovetsky islands, where the first camp of the Gulag political prison system was established, in St. Petersburg, Russia on Saturday, Feb. 17, 2024. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
FILE - Riot police detain a demonstrator during a protest against mobilization in Moscow on Wednesday, Sept. 21, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
6 of 8 
FILE - Riot police detain a demonstrator during a protest against mobilization in Moscow on Wednesday, Sept. 21, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
FILE - Police detain people protesting Russia’s attack on Ukraine in St. Petersburg, Russia, Tuesday, March. 1, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
7 of 8 
FILE - Police detain people protesting Russia’s attack on Ukraine in St. Petersburg, Russia, Tuesday, March. 1, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
FILE - Russian policemen detain a demonstrator protesting mobilization in St. Petersburg, Russia, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
Read More 
8 of 8 
FILE - Russian policemen detain a demonstrator protesting mobilization in St. Petersburg, Russia, Saturday, Sept. 24, 2022. In the last two years, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in an unprecedented government crackdown, together with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists. (AP Photo, File) 
TALLINN, Estonia (AP) — A lonely man jailed for criticizing the government on his ham radio. A poet assaulted by police after he recited a poem objecting to Russia’s war in Ukraine. A low-profile woman committed to a psychiatric facility for condemning the invasion on social media. 
President Vladimir Putin’s 24 years in power are almost certain to be extended six more by this month’s presidential election. That leadership has transformed Russia. A country that tolerated some dissent is now one that ruthlessly suppresses it. 
Along with opposition politicians, independent journalists and human rights activists, ordinary Russians have been increasingly swept up in a crackdown reminiscent of the Soviet era. Some human rights advocates compare the scale of the clampdown to the repression from the 1960s to the 1980s, when dissidents were prosecuted for “anti-Soviet propaganda.” 
This story is part of a larger series on the crackdown on dissent in Russia. Click here to read more of those stories, and the AP’s coverage of Russia’s presidential election. 
THREE YEARS IN PRISON FOR A RADIO AMATEUR 
Vladimir Rumyantsev led a lonely life. The 63-year-old worked stoking the furnace at a wood-processing plant in Vologda, a city about 400 kilometers (250 miles) northeast of Moscow. He had no family apart from an estranged brother. 
To entertain himself, he bought a couple of radio transmitters online and started broadcasting audiobooks and radio plays that he had liked, along with YouTube videos and podcasts by journalists critical of the Kremlin and the war in Ukraine. He also shared posts on his social network page in which independent media and bloggers talked about Russia’s attacks on civilian infrastructure in Ukraine. 
Rumyantsev did not intend to reach a radio audience. According to his lawyer, Sergei Tikhonov, he listened on headphones in his own apartment. 
In a letter from behind bars published by Russia’s prominent rights group OVD-Info, Rumyantsev said “tinkering with and improving” radios has been his hobby since Soviet times, and he decided to set up self-broadcasting as an alternative to Russia’s state TV, which was increasingly airing “patriotic hysteria.” To him, it seemed a better technological solution than Bluetooth speakers because the radio could reach everywhere in his apartment, he said in the letter. 
But his social media activity eventually put him on the authorities’ radar, and they discovered his radio frequency. In July 2022, police arrested Rumyantsev, accusing him of “spreading knowingly false information” about the Russian army — a criminal charge authorities introduced shortly after invading Ukraine. 
Rumyantsev rejected the charges and insisted on his constitutional right to freely collect and disseminate information, Tikhonov says. The law under which Rumyantsev was charged effectively criminalized any expression about the war that deviated from the Kremlin’s official narrative. In December 2022, he was convicted and sentenced to three years in prison. 
Tikhonov visits Rumyantsev every so often in a penal colony about 200 kilometers away (125 miles) from Vologda and described him as “calm and resilient,” even though incarceration has taken its toll on his health. 
He said Rumyantsev deliberately chose to speak out against the war and refuses to apply for parole as “it is unacceptable for him to admit guilt, even as a formality.” 
Russian media reported on the case against Rumyantsev when he was in pretrial detention, and he started getting many letters of support, Tikhonov said. Some supporters put money in his prison account, while others have sent supplies — mostly food, but also books and personal hygiene items, according to the lawyer. 
“In addition to making the man’s life easier, this (gave him) an understanding that he is not alone and there are many people who share the same values,” Tikhonov said. 
ARREST AND VIOLENCE AFTER A POETRY RECITAL 
Artyom Kamardin worked as an engineer, but poetry is his passion. 
He was a regular at monthly recitals in the center of Moscow, near the monument to Soviet poet Vladimir Mayakovsky. The recitals continued even after Russia invaded Ukraine. One was billed as an “anti-mobilization” recital several days after Putin announced a partial call-up into the army in September 2022. 
Kamardin, 33, recited a poem condemning Russia-backed insurgents in eastern Ukraine. The next day, police with a search warrant burst into the apartment he shared with his wife Alexandra Popova and another friend, and took the poet into custody. 
Police beat Kamardin, Popova and their flatmate, and raped the poet, both his wife and his lawyer said. All three filed a formal complaint with the authorities, and the allegations were eventually investigated. The authorities concluded that police acted “within the law,” the Russian news outlet Sota reported, citing the lawyer without providing further details. 
For the couple, the experience was so traumatic that they “still can’t openly talk to each other” about what happened, Popova said in an interview with The Associated Press. 
In addition to Kamardin, police swept up two other poets who didn’t know him, nor each other. They charged all three with making calls undermining national security and inciting hatred. All three were convicted and sentenced to prison terms. 
Kamardin got the longest — seven years. 
“No one should be in prison for words, for poetry,” Popova said. She said she believes that her husband’s poem “insulted someone so much that they decided to scourge a defiant poet.” 
The couple got married while Kamardin was in pretrial detention. 
INVOLUNTARY TREATMENT IN A PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL FOR WAR CRITICISM 
Unlike dozens of other Russians convicted over speaking out against the war in Ukraine and handed prison terms, St. Petersburg resident Viktoria Petrova is spending her days in a psychiatric facility. In December, she was sentenced to six months of involuntary treatment over a social media post condemning Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
Her lawyer has said that doctors can keep Petrova there for as long as they want and extend the term indefinitely once the six months run out. So the ruling “can’t be considered good news,” Anastasia Pilipenko wrote in her blog on the messaging app Telegram. 
Petrova was arrested in May 2022 and placed in pretrial detention over a post on Russian social network VK, in which she criticized Russian officials for what the Kremlin insists on calling “a special military operation” in Ukraine, the lawyer told Russian independent news site Mediazona. 
In her Telegram blog, Pilipenko has described Petrova, 30, as “an ordinary girl” who “merely shared her thoughts on social media.” 
“Ordinary life, ordinary gym, a cat. Ordinary job at an unremarkable office,” the lawyer wrote. 
The court ordered a psychiatric evaluation of Petrova after other inmates of her pretrial detention center reported that she kept up her “antiwar propaganda,” Pilipenko said in an interview with a local news outlet. These evaluations are common but in a rare turn, Petrova was declared mentally incompetent. 
The lawyer argued that it wasn’t true and her client’s words have been misconstrued, but to no avail — Petrova was committed to a psychiatric facility. 
In November, Pilipenko reported abuse by facility staff, saying that they forced a strip search of the woman by male workers, pushed her around, strapped her to the hospital bed and injected her with medication that left her unable to to speak for two days. 
“This should not happen to ‘political (prisoners),’ criminals, mentally ill people, healthy people — anyone,” Pilipenko wrote on Telegram. The facility didn’t comment on the allegations, but shortly after she spoke out about it, Pilipenko wrote, the abuse stopped. 
Litvinova is an Associated Press correspondent covering Russia, Belarus, Central Asia and the Caucasus. She is part of the team that covers the Russia-Ukraine war. She has covered Russia and the region for over a decade. 


Pre-invasion at border: 169,000–190,000[d] Pre-invasion total: 900,000 military 554,000 paramilitary In February 2023: 300,000+ active personnel in Ukraine 
Pre-invasion total: 196,600 military 102,000 paramilitary July 2022 total: up to 700,000 September 2023 total: over 800,000 
Casualties and losses 
Reports vary widely, see § Casualties for details. 
Russian troops retreated from the northern front by April 2022 after encountering logistical challenges and stiff Ukrainian resistance. On the southern and southeastern fronts, Russia captured Kherson in March and Mariupol in May after a destructive siege. Russia launched a renewed offensive in the Donbas and continued to bomb military and civilian targets far from the front line, including the energy grid through the winter. In late 2022, Ukraine launched successful counteroffensives in the south and east. Soon after, Russia announced the illegal annexation of four partly occupied regions. In November, Ukraine retook parts of Kherson Oblast, including the city of Kherson itself. In June 2023, Ukraine launched another counteroffensive in the southeast, which by the end of the year had petered out with only small amounts of territory retaken. 
Background 
International treaties 
In return for security guarantees, Ukraine signed the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty in 1994, agreeing to dismantle the nuclear weapons the former USSR had left in Ukraine. Russia, the UK and the US agreed in the Budapest Memorandum to uphold Ukraine's territorial integrity. In 1999, Russia signed the Charter for European Security, affirming the right of each state "to choose or change its security arrangements" and join alliances. In 2002, Putin said that Ukraine's growing relations with NATO were no concern of Russia. 
However, when Ukraine and Georgia sought to join NATO in 2008, Putin warned that their membership would be a threat to Russia. Some NATO members worried about antagonizing Russia. At the 2008 Bucharest summit, NATO refused to offer Ukraine and Georgia membership, but Jaap de Hoop Scheffer, Secretary General of NATO, also issued a statement that they would join one day. Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said Russia would do everything it could to prevent this. Putin claimed that NATO members had promised in 1990 not to let Eastern European countries join. That statement is disputed. 
Ukrainian revolution, Russian intervention in Crimea and Donbas 
In 2013, Ukraine's parliament overwhelmingly approved finalizing an association agreement with the European Union (EU). Russia had put pressure on Ukraine to reject it. Kremlin adviser Sergei Glazyev warned in September 2013 that if Ukraine signed the EU agreement, Russia would no longer acknowledge Ukraine's borders. In November, Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych suddenly withdrew from signing the agreement, choosing closer ties to the Russian-led Eurasian Economic Union instead. This coerced withdrawal triggered a wave of protests known as Euromaidan, culminating in the Revolution of Dignity in February 2014. Yanukovych was removed from power by parliament and fled to Russia. 
Prelude 
There was a massive Russian military build-up near the Ukraine border in March and April 2021, and again in both Russia and Belarus from October 2021 onward. Members of the Russian government repeatedly denied having plans to invade or attack Ukraine, with denials being issued up to the day before the invasion. The decision to invade Ukraine was reportedly made by Putin and a small group of war hawks or siloviki in Putin's inner circle, including national security adviser Nikolai Patrushev and defense minister Sergei Shoigu. 
In July 2021, Putin published an essay "On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians", in which he called Ukraine "historically Russian lands" and claimed there is "no historical basis" for the "idea of Ukrainian people as a nation separate from the Russians". Days before the invasion, Putin claimed that Ukraine never had "real statehood" and that modern Ukraine was a mistake created by the Russian Bolsheviks. American historian Timothy Snyder described Putin's ideas as imperialism. British journalist Edward Lucas described it as historical revisionism. Other observers found that Russia's leadership held a distorted view of Ukraine, as well as of its own history, and that these distortions were propagated through the state. 
During the second build-up, Russia demanded that NATO end all activity in Eastern Europe and ban Ukraine or any former Soviet state from ever joining NATO. Russia threatened an unspecified military response if NATO followed an "aggressive line." These demands were widely seen as non-viable; Eastern European states have willingly joined NATO for security reasons, and their governments sought protection from Russian irredentism. A treaty to prevent Ukraine joining would go against NATO's "open door" policy, despite NATO's unenthusiastic response to Ukrainian requests to join. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg replied that "Russia has no say" on whether Ukraine joins, and that "Russia has no right to establish a sphere of influence to try to control their neighbors." NATO's official policy is that it does not seek confrontation, and NATO and Russia had co-operated until Russia annexed Crimea. NATO offered to improve communication with Russia to discuss missile placements and military exercises, as long as Russia withdrew troops from Ukraine's borders, but Russia did not do so. 
French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz both made efforts in February 2022 to prevent war. Macron met Putin but failed to dissuade him from the invasion. Scholz warned Putin heavy sanctions would be imposed should he invade, and told Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to declare Ukraine a neutral state and renounce its aspirations to join NATO. Zelenskyy replied that Putin could not be trusted to uphold such a settlement. Ukraine had been a neutral country in 2014 when Russia occupied Crimea and invaded the Donbas. On 19 February, Zelenskyy made a speech at the Munich Security Conference, calling for Western powers to drop their policy of "appeasement" towards Moscow and implement a clear time-frame for when Ukraine could join NATO. 
Putin's invasion announcement 
On 21 February, Putin announced Russian diplomatic recognition of the Russian-controlled territories of Ukraine as independent states: the Donetsk People's Republic and Luhansk People's Republic. The following day, Russia announced that it was sending troops into these territories as "peacekeepers", and the Federation Council of Russia authorised the use of military force abroad. 
Before 5 a.m. Kyiv time on 24 February, Putin in another speech announced, a "special military operation", which "effectively declar[ed] war on Ukraine." Putin said the operation was to "protect the people" of the Russian-controlled breakaway republics. He falsely claimed that they had "been facing humiliation and genocide perpetrated by the Kyiv regime." Putin also falsely claimed that Ukrainian government officials were neo-Nazis under Western control, that Ukraine was developing nuclear weapons, and that NATO was building up military infrastructure in Ukraine to threaten Russia. He said Russia sought the "demilitarisation and denazification" of Ukraine, and espoused views challenging Ukraine's right to exist. Putin said he had no plans to occupy Ukraine and supported the right of the Ukrainian people to self-determination. Russian missiles struck targets throughout Ukraine, and Russian troops invaded from the north, east, and south. Russia did not officially declare war. Reports of an alleged leak of Russian Federal Security Service (FSB) documents by US intelligence sources said that the FSB had not been aware of Putin's plan to invade Ukraine. 
Strength 
The strength of Russian invading forces, including Russia-controlled "people's militias" of DPR and LPR, is estimated at 190,000 personnel. The strength of Russian forces fighting at 24 February 2024 is estimated at 500,000. 
Timeline 
The invasion, described as the biggest attack on a European country since the Second World War, began at dawn on 24 February. Russia launched a simultaneous ground and air campaign, commencing air and missile strikes across Ukraine, with some rockets reaching as far west as Lviv. It is Russia's largest combined arms operation since the Battle of Berlin in 1945. Fighting began in Luhansk Oblast at 3:40 a.m. Kyiv time near Milove on the border with Russia. The main infantry and tank attacks were launched in four spearheads, creating a northern front launched towards Kyiv from Belarus, a southern front from Crimea, a southeastern front from Russian-controlled Donbas, and an eastern front from Russia towards Kharkiv and Sumy. Russian vehicles were subsequently marked with a white Z military symbol (a non-Cyrillic letter), believed to be a measure to prevent friendly fire. 
Immediately after the invasion began, Zelenskyy declared martial law in Ukraine. The same evening, he ordered a general mobilisation of all Ukrainian males between 18 and 60 years old, prohibiting them from leaving the country. Wagner Group mercenaries and Kadyrovites contracted by the Kremlin reportedly made several attempts to assassinate Zelenskyy, including an operation involving several hundred mercenaries meant to infiltrate Kyiv with the aim of killing the Ukrainian president. The Ukrainian government said anti-war officials within Russia's FSB shared the plans with them. 
The Russian invasion was unexpectedly met by fierce Ukrainian resistance. In Kyiv, Russia failed to take the city and was repulsed in the battles of Irpin, Hostomel, and Bucha. The Russians tried to encircle the capital, but its defenders under Oleksandr Syrskyi held their ground, effectively using Western Javelin anti-tank missiles and Stinger anti-aircraft missiles to thin Russian supply lines and stall the offensive. 
On the southern front, Russian forces had captured the regional capital of Kherson by 2 March. A column of Russian tanks and armoured vehicles was ambushed on 9 March in Brovary and sustained heavy losses that forced them to retreat. The Russian army adopted siege tactics on the western front around the key cities of Chernihiv, Sumy and Kharkiv, but failed to capture them due to stiff resistance and logistical setbacks. In Mykolaiv Oblast, Russian forces advanced as far as Voznesensk, but were repelled and pushed back south of Mykolaiv. On 25 March, the Russian Defence Ministry stated that the first stage of the "military operation" in Ukraine was "generally complete", that the Ukrainian military forces had suffered serious losses, and the Russian military would now concentrate on the "liberation of Donbas." The "first stage" of the invasion was conducted on four fronts, including one towards western Kyiv from Belarus by the Russian Eastern Military District, comprising the 29th, 35th, and 36th Combined Arms Armies. A second axis, deployed towards eastern Kyiv from Russia by the Central Military District (northeastern front), comprised the 41st Combined Arms Army and the 2nd Guards Combined Arms Army. 
A third axis was deployed towards Kharkiv by the Western Military District (eastern front), with the 1st Guards Tank Army and 20th Combined Arms Army. A fourth, southern front originating in occupied Crimea and Russia's Rostov oblast with an eastern axis towards Odesa and a western area of operations toward Mariupol was opened by the Southern Military District, including the 58th, 49th, and 8th Combined Arms Army, the latter also commanding the 1st and 2nd Army Corps of the Russian separatist forces in Donbas. By 7 April, Russian troops deployed to the northern front by the Russian Eastern Military District pulled back from the Kyiv offensive, reportedly to resupply and redeploy to the Donbas region in an effort to reinforce the renewed invasion of southeastern Ukraine. The northeastern front, including the Central Military District, was similarly withdrawn for resupply and redeployment to southeastern Ukraine. On 26 April, delegates from the US and 40 allied nations met at Ramstein Air Base in Germany to discuss the formation of a coalition that would provide economic support in addition to military supplies and refitting to Ukraine. Following Putin's Victory Day speech in early May, US Director of National Intelligence Avril Haines said no short term resolution to the invasion should be expected. 
Ukraine's reliance on Western-supplied equipment constrained operational effectiveness, as supplying countries feared that Ukraine would use Western-made matériel to strike targets in Russia. Military experts disagreed on the future of the conflict; some suggested that Ukraine should trade territory for peace, while others believed that Ukraine could maintain its resistance due to Russian losses. 
By 30 May, disparities between Russian and Ukrainian artillery were apparent, with Ukrainian artillery being vastly outgunned, in terms of both range and number. In response to US President Joe Biden's indication that enhanced artillery would be provided to Ukraine, Putin said that Russia would expand its invasion front to include new cities in Ukraine. In apparent retribution, Putin ordered a missile strike against Kyiv on 6 June after not directly attacking the city for several weeks. On 10 June 2022, deputy head of the SBU Vadym Skibitsky stated that during the Severodonetsk campaign, the frontlines were where the future of the invasion would be decided: "This is an artillery war now, and we are losing in terms of artillery. Everything now depends on what [the west] gives us. Ukraine has one artillery piece to 10 to 15 Russian artillery pieces. Our western partners have given us about 10% of what they have." 
On 29 June, Reuters reported that US Intelligence Director Avril Haines, in an update of past U.S. intelligence assessments on the Russian invasion, said that U.S. intelligence agencies agree that the invasion will continue "for an extended period of time ... In short, the picture remains pretty grim and Russia's attitude toward the West is hardening." On 5 July, BBC reported that extensive destruction by the Russian invasion would cause immense financial damage to Ukraine's reconstruction economy, with Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal telling nations at a reconstruction conference in Switzerland that Ukraine needs $750bn for a recovery plan and Russian oligarchs should contribute to the cost. 
Initial invasion of Ukraine (24 February – 7 April) 
The invasion began on 24 February, launched out of Belarus to target Kyiv, and from the northeast against the city of Kharkiv. The southeastern front was conducted as two separate spearheads, from Crimea and the southeast against Luhansk and Donetsk. 
Kyiv and northern front 
Russian efforts to capture Kyiv included a probative spearhead on 24 February, from Belarus south along the west bank of the Dnipro River. The apparent intent was to encircle the city from the west, supported by two separate axes of attack from Russia along the east bank of the Dnipro: the western at Chernihiv, and from the east at Sumy. These were likely intended to encircle Kyiv from the northeast and east. 
Russia tried to seize Kyiv quickly, with Spetsnaz infiltrating into the city supported by airborne operations and a rapid mechanised advance from the north, but failed. The United States contacted Zelenskyy and offered to help him flee the country, lest the Russian Army attempt to kidnap or kill him on seizing Kyiv; Zelenskyy responded that "The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride." The Washington Post, which described the quote as "one of the most-cited lines of the Russian invasion", was not entirely sure of the comment's accuracy. Reporter Glenn Kessler said it came from "a single source, but on the surface it appears to be a good one." Russian forces advancing on Kyiv from Belarus gained control of the ghost town of Chernobyl. Russian Airborne Forces attempted to seize two key airfields near Kyiv, launching an airborne assault on Antonov Airport, and a similar landing at Vasylkiv, near Vasylkiv Air Base, on 26 February. 
By early March, Russian advances along the west side of the Dnipro were limited by Ukrainian defences. As of 5 March, a large Russian convoy, reportedly 64 kilometres (40 mi) long, had made little progress toward Kyiv. The London-based think tank Royal United Services Institute (RUSI) assessed Russian advances from the north and east as "stalled." Advances from Chernihiv largely halted as a siege began there. Russian forces continued to advance on Kyiv from the northwest, capturing Bucha, Hostomel, and Vorzel by 5 March, though Irpin remained contested as of 9 March. By 11 March, the lengthy convoy had largely dispersed and taken cover. On 16 March, Ukrainian forces began a counter-offensive to repel Russian forces. Unable to achieve a quick victory in Kyiv, Russian forces switched their strategy to indiscriminate bombing and siege warfare. On 25 March, a Ukrainian counter-offensive retook several towns to the east and west of Kyiv, including Makariv. Russian troops in the Bucha area retreated north at the end of March. Ukrainian forces entered the city on 1 April. Ukraine said it had recaptured the entire region around Kyiv, including Irpin, Bucha, and Hostomel, and uncovered evidence of war crimes in Bucha. On 6 April, NATO secretary-general Jens Stoltenberg said that the Russian "retraction, resupply, and redeployment" of their troops from the Kyiv area should be interpreted as an expansion of Putin's plans for Ukraine, by redeploying and concentrating his forces on eastern Ukraine. Kyiv was generally left free from attack apart from isolated missile strikes. One did occur while UN Secretary-General António Guterres was visiting Kyiv on 28 April to discuss the survivors of the siege of Mariupol with Zelenskyy. One person was killed and several were injured in the attack. 
On 4 March, Frederick Kagan wrote that the Sumy axis was then "the most successful and dangerous Russian avenue of advance on Kyiv", and commented that the geography favoured mechanised advances as the terrain "is flat and sparsely populated, offering few good defensive positions." Travelling along highways, Russian forces reached Brovary, an eastern suburb of Kyiv, on 4 March. The Pentagon confirmed on 6 April that the Russian army had left Chernihiv Oblast, but Sumy Oblast remained contested. On 7 April, the governor of Sumy Oblast said that Russian troops were gone, but had left behind rigged explosives and other hazards. 
Southern front 
On 24 February, Russian forces took control of the North Crimean Canal. Troops used explosives to destroy the dam across the river, allowing Crimea to obtain water from the Dnieper, which had been cut off since 2014. On 26 February, the siege of Mariupol began as the attack moved east linking to separatist-held Donbas. En route, Russian forces entered Berdiansk and captured it. On 1 March, Russian forces attacked Melitopol and nearby cities. On 25 February, Russian units from the DPR were fighting near Pavlopil as they moved on Mariupol. By evening, the Russian Navy began an amphibious assault on the coast of the Sea of Azov 70 kilometres (43 mi) west of Mariupol. A US defence official said that Russian forces were deploying thousands of marines from this beachhead. 
After renewed missile attacks on 14 March in Mariupol, the Ukrainian government said more than 2,500 had died. By 18 March, Mariupol was completely encircled and fighting reached the city centre, hampering efforts to evacuate civilians. On 20 March, an art school sheltering around 400 people, was destroyed by Russian bombs. The Russians demanded surrender, and the Ukrainians refused. On 27 March, Ukrainian deputy prime minister Olha Stefanishyna said that "(m)ore than 85 percent of the whole town is destroyed." 
Putin told Emmanuel Macron in a phone call on 29 March that the bombardment of Mariupol would only end when the Ukrainians surrendered. On 1 April, Russian troops refused safe passage into Mariupol to 50 buses sent by the United Nations to evacuate civilians, as peace talks continued in Istanbul. On 3 April, following the retreat of Russian forces from Kyiv, Russia expanded its attack on southern Ukraine further west, with bombardment and strikes against Odesa, Mykolaiv, and the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant. 
On 25 March, the Russian defence ministry said it would seek to occupy major cities in eastern Ukraine. On 31 March, PBS News reported renewed shelling and missile attacks in Kharkiv, as bad or worse than before, as peace talks with Russia were to resume in Istanbul. 
Amid the heightened Russian shelling of Kharkiv on 31 March, Russia reported a helicopter strike against an oil supply depot approximately 35 kilometres (22 mi) north of the border in Belgorod, and accused Ukraine of the attack. Ukraine denied responsibility. By 7 April, the renewed massing of Russian invasion troops and tank divisions around the towns of Izium, Sloviansk, and Kramatorsk prompted Ukrainian government officials to advise the remaining residents near the eastern border of Ukraine to evacuate to western Ukraine within 2–3 days, given the absence of arms and munitions previously promised to Ukraine by then. 
Southeastern front (8 April – 5 September) 
By 17 April, Russian progress on the southeastern front appeared to be impeded by opposing Ukrainian forces in the large, heavily fortified Azovstal steel mill and surrounding area in Mariupol. 
On 19 April, The New York Times confirmed that Russia had launched a renewed invasion front referred to as an "eastern assault" across a 480-kilometre (300 mi) front extending from Kharkiv to Donetsk and Luhansk, with simultaneous missile attacks again directed at Kyiv in the north and Lviv in western Ukraine. As of 30 April, a NATO official described Russian advances as "uneven" and "minor." An anonymous US Defence official called the Russian offensive "very tepid", "minimal at best", and "anaemic." In June 2022 the chief spokesman for the Russian Ministry of Defence Igor Konashenkov revealed that Russian troops were divided between the Army Groups "Center" commanded by Colonel General Aleksander Lapin and "South" commanded by Army General Sergey Surovikin. On 20 July, Lavrov announced that Russia would respond to the increased military aid being received by Ukraine from abroad as justifying the expansion of its special military operation to include objectives in both the Zaporizhzhia and Kherson regions. 
Russian Ground Forces started recruiting volunteer battalions from the regions in June 2022 to create a new 3rd Army Corps within the Western Military District, with a planned strength estimated at 15,500–60,000 personnel. Its units were deployed to the front around the time of Ukraine's 9 September Kharkiv oblast counteroffensive, in time to join the Russian retreat, leaving behind tanks, infantry fighting vehicles, and personnel carriers: the 3rd Army Corps "melted away" according to Forbes, having little or no impact on the battlefield along with other irregular forces. 
Fall of Mariupol 
On 13 April, Russian forces intensified their attack on the Azovstal Iron and Steel Works in Mariupol, and the remaining Ukrainian personnel defending it. By 17 April, Russian forces had surrounded the factory. Ukrainian prime minister Denys Shmyhal said that the Ukrainian soldiers had vowed to ignore the renewed ultimatum to surrender and to fight to the last soul. On 20 April, Putin said that the siege of Mariupol could be considered tactically complete, since the 500 Ukrainian troops entrenched in bunkers within the Azovstal iron works and estimated 1,000 Ukrainian civilians were completely sealed off from any type of relief. 
After consecutive meetings with Putin and Zelenskyy, UN Secretary-General Guterres on 28 April said he would attempt to organise an emergency evacuation of survivors from Azovstal in accordance with assurances he had received from Putin on his visit to the Kremlin. On 30 April, Russian troops allowed civilians to leave under UN protection. By 3 May, after allowing approximately 100 Ukrainian civilians to depart from the Azovstal steel factory, Russian troops renewed their bombardment of the steel factory. On 6 May, The Daily Telegraph reported that Russia had used thermobaric bombs against the remaining Ukrainian soldiers, who had lost contact with the Kyiv government; in his last communications, Zelenskyy authorised the commander of the besieged steel factory to surrender as necessary under the pressure of increased Russian attacks. On 7 May, the Associated Press reported that all civilians were evacuated from the Azovstal steel works at the end of the three-day ceasefire. 
After the last civilians evacuated from the Azovstal bunkers, nearly two thousand Ukrainian soldiers remained barricaded there, 700 of them injured. They were able to communicate a plea for a military corridor to evacuate, as they expected summary execution if they surrendered to Russian forces. Reports of dissent within the Ukrainian troops at Azovstal were reported by Ukrainska Pravda on 8 May indicating that the commander of the Ukrainian marines assigned to defend the Azovstal bunkers made an unauthorised acquisition of tanks, munitions, and personnel, broke out from the position there and fled. The remaining soldiers spoke of a weakened defensive position in Azovstal as a result, which allowed progress to advancing Russian lines of attack. Ilia Somolienko, deputy commander of the remaining Ukrainian troops barricaded at Azovstal, said: "We are basically here dead men. Most of us know this and it's why we fight so fearlessly." 
On 16 May, the Ukrainian General staff announced that the Mariupol garrison had "fulfilled its combat mission" and that final evacuations from the Azovstal steel factory had begun. The military said that 264 service members were evacuated to Olenivka under Russian control, while 53 of them who were "seriously injured" had been taken to a hospital in Novoazovsk also controlled by Russian forces. Following the evacuation of Ukrainian personnel from Azovstal, Russian and DPR forces fully controlled all areas of Mariupol. The end of the battle also brought an end to the Siege of Mariupol. Russia press secretary Dmitry Peskov said Russian President Vladimir Putin had guaranteed that the fighters who surrendered would be treated "in accordance with international standards" while Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in an address that "the work of bringing the boys home continues, and this work needs delicacy—and time." Some prominent Russian lawmakers called on the government to deny prisoner exchanges for members of the Azov Regiment. 
Fall of Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk 
A Russian missile attack on Kramatorsk railway station in the city of Kramatorsk took place on 8 April, reportedly killing at least 52 people and injuring as many as 87 to 300. On 11 April, Zelenskyy said that Ukraine expected a major new Russian offensive in the east. American officials said that Russia had withdrawn or been repulsed elsewhere in Ukraine, and therefore was preparing a retraction, resupply, and redeployment of infantry and tank divisions to the southeastern Ukraine front. Military satellites photographed extensive Russian convoys of infantry and mechanised units deploying south from Kharkiv to Izium on 11 April, apparently part of the planned Russian redeployment of its northeastern troops to the southeastern front of the invasion. 
On 18 April, with Mariupol almost entirely overtaken by Russian forces, the Ukrainian government announced that the second phase of the reinforced invasion of the Donetsk, Luhansk and Kharkiv regions had intensified with expanded invasion forces occupying of the Donbas. 
On 22 May, the BBC reported that after the fall of Mariupol, Russia had intensified offensives in Luhansk and Donetsk while concentrating missile attacks and intense artillery fire on Sievierodonetsk, the largest city under Ukrainian control in Luhansk province. 
On 23 May, Russian forces were reported entering the city of Lyman, fully capturing the city by 26 May. Ukrainian forces were reported leaving Sviatohirsk. By 24 May, Russian forces captured the city of Svitlodarsk. On 30 May, Reuters reported that Russian troops had breached the outskirts of Sievierodonetsk. By 2 June, The Washington Post reported that Sievierodonetsk was on the brink of capitulation to Russian occupation with over 80 per cent of the city in the hands of Russian troops. On 3 June, Ukrainian forces reportedly began a counter-attack in Sievierodonetsk. By 4 June, Ukrainian government sources claimed 20% or more of the city had been recaptured. 
On 12 June, it was reported that possibly as many as 800 Ukrainian civilians (as per Ukrainian estimates) and 300–400 soldiers (as per Russian sources) were besieged at the Azot chemical factory in Severodonetsk. With the Ukrainian defences of Severodonetsk faltering, Russian invasion troops began intensifying their attack upon the neighbouring city of Lysychansk as their next target city in the invasion. On 20 June it was reported that Russian troops continued to tighten their grip on Severodonetsk by capturing surrounding villages and hamlets surrounding the city, most recently the village of Metelkine. 
On 24 June, CNN reported that, amid continuing scorched-earth tactics being applied by advancing Russian troops, Ukraine's armed forces were ordered to evacuate the Severodonetsk; several hundred civilians taking refuge in the Azot chemical plant were left behind in the withdrawal, with some comparing their plight to that of the civilians at the Azovstal steel works in Mariupol in May. On 3 July, CBS announced that the Russian defense ministry claimed that the city of Lysychansk had been captured and occupied by Russian forces. On 4 July, The Guardian reported that after the fall of the Luhansk oblast, that Russian invasion troops would continue their invasion into the adjacent Donetsk Oblast to attack the cities of Sloviansk and Bakhmut. 
Kharkiv front 
On 14 April, Ukrainian troops reportedly blew up a bridge between Kharkiv and Izium used by Russian forces to redeploy troops to Izium, impeding the Russian convoy. 
On 5 May, David Axe writing for Forbes stated that the Ukrainian army had concentrated its 4th and 17th Tank Brigades and the 95th Air Assault Brigade around Izium for possible rearguard action against the deployed Russian troops in the area; Axe added that the other major concentration of Ukraine's forces around Kharkiv included the 92nd and 93rd Mechanised Brigades which could similarly be deployed for rearguard action against Russian troops around Kharkiv or link up with Ukrainian troops contemporaneously being deployed around Izium. 
On 13 May, BBC reported that Russian troops in Kharkiv were being retracted and redeployed to other fronts in Ukraine following the advances of Ukrainian troops into surrounding cities and Kharkiv itself, which included the destruction of strategic pontoon bridges built by Russian troops to cross over the Seversky Donets river and previously used for rapid tank deployment in the region. 
Kherson-Mykolaiv front 
Missile attacks and bombardment of the key cities of Mykolaiv and Odesa continued as the second phase of the invasion began. On 22 April 2022, Russia's Brigadier General Rustam Minnekayev in a defence ministry meeting said that Russia planned to extend its Mykolaiv–Odesa front after the siege of Mariupol further west to include the breakaway region of Transnistria on the Ukrainian border with Moldova. The Ministry of Defence of Ukraine called this plan imperialism and said that it contradicted previous Russian claims that it did not have territorial ambitions in Ukraine and also that the statement admitted that "the goal of the 'second phase' of the war is not victory over the mythical Nazis, but simply the occupation of eastern and southern Ukraine." Georgi Gotev of EURACTIV noted on 22 April that Russian occupation from Odesa to Transnistria would transform Ukraine into a landlocked nation with no practical access to the Black Sea. Russia resumed its missile strikes on Odesa on 24 April, destroying military facilities and causing two dozen civilian casualties. 
Explosions destroyed two Russian broadcast towers in Transnistria on 27 April that had primarily rebroadcast Russian television programming, Ukrainian sources said. Russian missile attacks at the end of April destroyed runways in Odesa. In the week of 10 May, Ukrainian troops began to dislodge Russian forces from Snake Island in the Black Sea approximately 200 kilometres (120 mi) from Odesa. Russia said on 30 June 2022 that it had withdrawn its troops from the island, once their objectives had been completed. 
On 23 July, CNBC reported a Russian missile strike on the Ukrainian port of Odesa, swiftly condemned by world leaders amid a recent U.N. and Turkish-brokered deal to secure a sea corridor for exports of grains and other foodstuffs. On 31 July, CNN reported significantly intensified rocket attacks and bombing of Mykolaiv by Russians, which also killed Ukrainian grain tycoon Oleksiy Vadaturskyi. 
Zaporizhzhia front 
Russian forces continued to fire missiles and drop bombs on the key cities of Dnipro and Zaporizhzhia. Russian missiles destroyed the Dnipro International Airport on 10 April 2022. On 2 May the UN, reportedly with the cooperation of Russian troops, evacuated about 100 survivors from the siege of Mariupol to the village of Bezimenne near Donetsk, from whence they would move to Zaporizhzhia. On 28 June, Reuters reported that a Russian missile attack on the city of Kremenchuk northwest of Zaporizhzhia detonated in a public mall and caused at least 18 deaths. France's Emmanuel Macron called it a "war crime." 
Ukrainian nuclear agency Energoatom called the situation at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant "extremely tense", although it was still operated by its Ukrainian staff. As many as 500 Russian soldiers controlled the plant; Kyiv's nuclear agency said they were shelling nearby areas and storing weapons and "missile systems" there. Almost the entire country went on air raid alert. "They already shell the other side of the river Dnipro and the territory of Nikopol," Energoatom president Pedro Kotin said. Russia agreed on 19 August to allow IAEA inspectors access to the Zaporizhzhia plant after a phone call from Macron to Putin. As of July 2023, however, access to the plant remained limited and required extensive negotiation. 
Russia reported that 12 attacks with explosions from 50 artillery shells had been recorded by 18 August at the plant and the company town of Enerhodar. Tobias Ellwood, chair of the UK's Defence Select Committee, said on 19 August that any deliberate damage to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant that could cause radiation leaks would be a breach of Article 5 of the North Atlantic Treaty, under which an attack on a member state of NATO is an attack on them all. US congressman Adam Kinzinger said the following day that any radiation leak would kill people in NATO countries, an automatic activation of Article 5. 
Shelling hit coal ash dumps at the neighbouring coal-fired power station on 23 August, and the ash was on fire on 25 August. The 750kV transmission line to the Dniprovska substation, the only one of the four 750 kV transmission lines still undamaged and cut by military action, passes over the ash dumps. At 12:12 p.m. on 25 August the line cut off due to the fire, disconnecting the plant and its two operating reactors from the national grid for the first time since its startup in 1985. In response back-up generators and coolant pumps for reactor 5 started up, and reactor 6 reduced generation. 
Incoming power was still available across the 330 kV line to the substation at the coal-fired station, so the diesel generators were not essential for cooling reactor cores and spent fuel pools. The 750 kV line and reactor 6 resumed operation at 12:29 p.m., but the line was cut by fire again two hours later. The line, but not the reactors, resumed operation again later that day. On 26 August, one reactor restarted in the afternoon and another in the evening, resuming electricity supplies to the grid. On 29 August 2022, an IAEA team led by Rafael Grossi went to the plant to investigate . Lydie Evrard and Massimo Aparo were also on the team. No leaks had been reported at the plant before their arrival, but shelling had occurred days before. 
Russian annexations and occupation losses (6 September – 11 November 2022) 
On 6 September 2022, Ukrainian forces launched a surprise counteroffensive in the Kharkiv region, beginning near Balakliia, led by General Syrskyi. An emboldened Kyiv launched a counteroffensive 12 September around Kharkiv successful enough to make Russia admit losing key positions and for The New York Times to say that it dented the image of a "Mighty Putin". Kiev sought more arms from the West to sustain the counteroffensive. On 21 September 2022, Vladimir Putin announced a partial mobilisation and minister of defence Sergei Shoigu said 300,000 reservists would be called. He also said that his country would use "all means" to "defend itself." Mykhailo Podolyak, an adviser to Zelenskyy, said that the decision was predictable, and was an attempt to justify "Russia's failures." British Foreign Office Minister Gillian Keegan called the situation an "escalation", while former Mongolian president Tsakhiagiin Elbegdorj accused Russia of using Russian Mongols as "cannon fodder." 
Russian annexation of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk and Zaporizhzhia oblasts 
In late September 2022, Russian-installed officials in Ukraine organised referendums on the annexation of the occupied territories of Ukraine. These included the Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic in Russian occupied Donetsk and Luhansk oblasts of Ukraine, as well as the Russian-appointed military administrations of Kherson Oblast and Zaporizhzhia Oblast. Denounced by Ukraine's government and its allies as sham elections, the elections' official results showed overwhelming majorities in favor of annexation. 
On 30 September 2022, Vladimir Putin announced the annexation of Ukraine's Donetsk, Luhansk, Kherson and Zaporizhzhia regions in an address to both houses of the Russian parliament. Ukraine, the United States, the European Union and the United Nations all denounced the annexation as illegal. 
Zaporizhzhia front 
An IAEA delegation visited the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant on 3 September, and on 6 September reported damage and security threats caused by external shelling and the presence of occupying troops in the plant. On 11 September, at 3:14 a.m., the sixth and final reactor was disconnected from the grid, "completely stopping" the plant. Energoatom said that preparations were "underway for its cooling and transfer to a cold state." 
Kherson counteroffensive 
On 29 August, Zelenskyy advisedly vowed the start of a full-scale counteroffensive in the southeast. He first announced a counteroffensive to retake Russian-occupied territory in the south concentrating on the Kherson-Mykolaiv region, a claim that was corroborated by the Ukrainian parliament as well as Operational Command South. 
On 4 September, Zelenskyy announced the liberation of two unnamed villages in Kherson Oblast and one in Donetsk Oblast. Ukrainian authorities released a photo showing the raising of the Ukrainian flag in Vysokopillia by Ukrainian forces. Ukrainian attacks also continued along the southern frontline, though reports about territorial changes were largely unverifiable. On 12 September, Zelenskyy said that Ukrainian forces had retaken a total of 6,000 square kilometres (2,300 sq mi) from Russia, in both the south and the east. The BBC stated that it could not verify these claims. 
In October, Ukrainian forces pushed further south towards the city of Kherson, taking control of 1,170 square kilometres (450 sq mi) of territory, with fighting extending to Dudchany. On 9 November, defence minister Shoigu ordered Russian forces to leave part of Kherson Oblast, including the city of Kherson, and move to the eastern bank of the Dnieper. On 11 November, Ukrainian troops entered Kherson, as Russia completed its withdrawal. This meant that Russian forces no longer had a foothold on the west (right) bank of the Dnieper. 
Kharkiv counteroffensive 
Retained by Ukraine Retaken by Ukraine Occupied by Russia Map of the Kharkiv front as of 21 March 2024 
Ukrainian forces launched another surprise counteroffensive on 6 September in the Kharkiv region near Balakliia led by General Syrskyi. By 7 September, Ukrainian forces had advanced some 20 kilometres (12 mi) into Russian occupied territory and claimed to have recaptured approximately 400 square kilometres (150 sq mi). Russian commentators said this was likely due to the relocation of Russian forces to Kherson in response to the Ukrainian offensive there. On 8 September, Ukrainian forces captured Balakliia and advanced to within 15 kilometres (9.3 mi) of Kupiansk. Military analysts said Ukrainian forces appeared to be moving towards Kupiansk, a major railway hub, with the aim of cutting off the Russian forces at Izium from the north. 
On 9 September, the Russian occupation administration of Kharkiv Oblast announced it would "evacuate" the civilian populations of Izium, Kupiansk and Velykyi Burluk. The Institute for the Study of War (ISW) said it believed Kupiansk would likely fall in the next 72 hours, while Russian reserve units were sent to the area by both road and helicopter. On the morning of 10 September, photos emerged claiming to depict Ukrainian troops raising the Ukrainian flag in the centre of Kupiansk, and the ISW said Ukrainian forces had captured approximately 2,500 square kilometres (970 sq mi) by effectively exploiting their breakthrough. Later in the day, Reuters reported that Russian positions in northeast Ukraine had "collapsed" in the face of the Ukrainian assault, with Russian forces forced to withdraw from their base at Izium after being cut off by the capture of Kupiansk. 
By 15 September, an assessment by UK's Ministry of Defence confirmed that Russia had either lost or withdrawn from almost all of their positions west of the Oskil river. The retreating units had also abandoned various high-value military assets. The offensive continued pushing east and by 2 October, Ukrainian Armed Forces had liberated another key city in the Second Battle of Lyman. 
Winter stalemate, attrition campaign and military surge (12 November 2022 – 7 June 2023) 
After the end of the twin Ukrainian counteroffensives, the fighting shifted to a semi-deadlock during the winter, with heavy casualties but reduced motion of the frontline. Russia launched a self-proclaimed winter offensive in eastern Ukraine, but the campaign ended in "disappointment" for Moscow, with limited gains as the offensive stalled. Analysts variously blamed the failure on Russia's lack of "trained men", and supply problems with artillery ammunition, among other problems. Near the end of May, Mark Galeotti assessed that "after Russia's abortive and ill-conceived winter offensive, which squandered its opportunity to consolidate its forces, Ukraine is in a relatively strong position." 
On 7 February, The New York Times reported that Russians had newly mobilised nearly 200,000 soldiers to participate in the offensive in the Donbas, against Ukraine troops already wearied by previous fighting. The Russian private military company Wagner Group took on greater prominence in the war, leading "grinding advances" in Bakhmut with tens of thousands of recruits from prison battalions taking part in "near suicidal" assaults on Ukrainian positions. 
In late January 2023, fighting intensified in the southern Zaporizhzhia region, with both sides suffering heavy casualties. In nearby southern parts of Donetsk Oblast, an intense, three-week Russian assault near the coal-mining town of Vuhledar was called the largest tank battle of the war to date, and ended in disaster for Russian forces, who lost "at least 130 tanks and armored personnel carriers" according to Ukrainian commanders. The British Ministry of Defense stated that "a whole Russian brigade was effectively annihilated." 
Battle of Bakhmut 
Following defeat in Kherson and Kharkiv, Russian and Wagner forces have focused on taking the city of Bakhmut and breaking the half year long stalemate that has prevailed there since the start of the war. Russian forces have sought to encircle the city, attacking from the north via Soledar. After taking heavy casualties, Russian and Wagner forces took control of Soledar on 16 January 2023. By early February 2023, Bakhmut was facing attacks from north, south and east, with the sole Ukrainian supply lines coming from Chasiv Yar to the west. 
On 3 March 2023, Ukrainian soldiers destroyed two key bridges, creating the possibility for a controlled fighting withdrawal from eastern sectors of Bakhmut. On 4 March, Bakhmut's deputy mayor told news services that there was street fighting in the city. On 7 March, despite the city's near-encirclement, The New York Times reported that Ukrainian commanders were requesting permission from Kyiv to continue fighting against the Russians in Bakhmut. 
On 26 March, Wagner Group forces claimed to have fully captured the tactically significant Azom factory in Bakhmut. Appearing before the House Committee on Armed Services on 29 March, General Mark Milley, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, reported that, "for about the last 20, 21 days, the Russia have not made any progress whatsoever in and around Bakhmut." Milley described the severe casualties being inflicted upon the Russian forces there as a "slaughter-fest." 
By the beginning of May, the ISW assessed that Ukraine controlled only 1.89 square kilometres of the city, less than five percent. On 18 May 2023, The New York Times reported that Ukrainian forces had launched a local counteroffensive, taking back swathes of territory to the north and south of Bakhmut over the course of a few days. 
2023 counteroffensives and summer campaign (8 June 2023 – 1 December 2023) 
In June 2023, Ukrainian forces gradually launched a series of counteroffensives on multiple fronts, including Donetsk Oblast, Zaporizhzhia Oblast, and others. On 8 June 2023, counteroffensive efforts focused near settlements such as Orikhiv, Tokmak, and Bakhmut. However, counteroffensive operations have faced stiff resistance from Russia, and the American think tank Institute for the Study of War called the Russian defensive effort as having "an uncharacteristic degree of coherency." By 12 June, Ukraine reported its fastest advance in seven months, claiming to have liberated several villages and advanced a total of 6.5 km. Russian military bloggers also reported that Ukraine had taken Blahodatne, Makarivka and Neskuchne, and were continuing to push southward. Ukraine continued to liberate settlements over the next few months, raising the Ukrainian flag over the settlement of Robotyne in late August. 
On 24 June, the Wagner Group launched a brief rebellion against the Russian government, capturing several cities in western Russia largely unopposed before marching towards Moscow. This came as the culmination of prolonged infighting and power struggles between Wagner and the Russian Ministry of Defense. After about 24 hours, the Wagner Group backed down and agreed to a peace deal in which Wagner leader Yevgeny Prigozhin would go into exile in Belarus, and his forces would be free from prosecution. On 27 June, the UK's Ministry of Defence reported that Ukraine were "highly likely" to have reclaimed territory in the eastern Donbas region occupied by Russia since 2014 among its advances. Pro-Russian bloggers also reported that Ukrainian forces had made gains in the southern Kherson region, establishing a foothold on the left bank of the Dnipro river after crossing it. 
In August, The Guardian reported that Ukraine had become the most mined country in the world, with Russia laying millions of mines attempting to thwart Ukraine's counteroffensive. The vast minefields forced Ukraine to extensively de-mine areas to allow advances. Ukrainian officials reported shortages of men and equipment as Ukrainian soldiers unearth five mines for every square metre in certain places. 
Following Russia pulling out of the Black Sea Grain Initiative, the conflict on the Black Sea escalated with Ukraine targeting Russian ships. On 4 August, Ukrainian security service sources reported that the Russian landing ship Olenegorsky Gornyak had been hit and damaged by an unmanned naval drone. Video footage released by Ukraine's security services appeared to show the drone striking the ship, with another video showing the ship seemingly listing to one side. On 12 September, both Ukrainian and Russian sources reported that Russian naval targets in Sevastopol had been struck by unconfirmed weaponry, damaging two military vessels, one of them reportedly a submarine. Ukraine also reported that several oil and gas drilling platforms on the Black Sea held by Russia since 2015 had been retaken. 
In September 2023, Ukrainian intelligence estimated that Russia had deployed over 420,000 troops in Ukraine. 
On 21 September, Russia began missile strikes across Ukraine, damaging the country's energy facilities. On 22 September, the US announced it would send long-range ATACMS missiles to Ukraine, despite the reservations of some government officials. The same day, the Ukrainian Main Directorate of Intelligence launched a missile strike on the Black Sea Fleet headquarters in Sevastopol, Crimea, killing several senior military officials. 
In October 2023, it was reported that there was a growth of mutinies among Russian troops due to large amount of losses in Russian offensives around Avdiivka with a lack of artillery, food, water and poor command also being reported. By November, British intelligence said that recent weeks had "likely seen some of the highest Russian casualty rates of the war so far." 
In mid-to-late October 2023, Ukrainian marines—partly guided by defecting Russian troops—crossed the Dnipro River (the strategic barrier between eastern and western Ukraine), downstream of the destroyed Kakhovka Dam, to attack the Russian-held territory on the east side of the river. Despite heavy losses due to intense Russian shelling and aerial bombardment, disorganization, and dwindling resources, Ukrainian brigades invading the Russian-held side of the river continued to inflict heavy casualties on Russian forces well into late December. 
On 1 December 2023, Volodymyr Zelenskyy stated that the Ukrainian counter-offensive was not successful, citing a lack of weapons and ground forces.[better source needed] Zelenskyy also stated that it will be easier for Ukraine to regain the Crimean peninsula than the Donbas region in the east of the country, because the Donbas is heavily militarized and there are frequent pro-Russian sentiments. In December 2023, multiple international media outlets described the Ukrainian counteroffensive as having failed to regain any significant amount of territory or meet any of its strategic objectives. 
Capture of Avdiivka, Russian naval and aviation losses (1 December 2023 – present) 
On 26 December, using air-launched cruise missiles, Ukraine's air force attacked the Russian landing ship Novocherkassk, a large landing craft docked in Feodosia, which Ukraine said launched cruise missiles upon Ukrainian cities. Ukraine's attack caused multiple explosions and fires. Ukraine said the attack detonated munitions on the ship, and it was destroyed—unlikely to sail again. Russian authorities confirmed the attack, but not the loss, and said two attacking aircraft were destroyed. Independent analysts said the ship's loss could hamper future Russian attacks on Ukraine's coast. 
On 17 February 2024, Russia captured Avdiivka, a longtime stronghold for Ukraine that had been described as a "gateway" to nearby Donetsk. ABC News stated that Russia could use the development to boost morale with the war largely at a stalemate close to its second anniversary. 
On 29 February, the Ukrainian Air Force reported a spree of shooting down 11 Russian jets in 11 days: eight Su-34s, two Sukhoi Su-35 fighters and a rare Beriev A-50 radar plane. 
Battlespaces 
Command 
The supreme commanders-in-chief are the heads of state of the respective governments: President Vladimir Putin of Russia and President Volodymyr Zelenskyy of Ukraine. Putin has reportedly meddled in operational decisions, bypassing senior commanders and giving orders directly to brigade commanders. 
US general Mark Milley said that Ukraine's top military commander in the war, commander-in-chief of the Armed Forces of Ukraine, General Valerii Zaluzhnyi, "has emerged as the military mind his country needed. His leadership enabled the Ukrainian armed forces to adapt quickly with battlefield initiative against the Russians." Russia began the invasion with no overall commander. The commanders of the four military districts were each responsible for their own offensives. 
After initial setbacks, the commander of the Russian Southern Military District, Aleksandr Dvornikov, was placed in overall command on 8 April 2022, while still responsible for his own campaign. Russian forces benefited from the centralization of command under Dvornikov, but continued failures to meet expectations in Moscow led to multiple changes in overall command: 
commander of the Eastern Military District Gennady Zhidko (Eastern Military District, 26 – 8 May October 2022) 
commander of the southern grouping of forces Sergei Surovikin (early October 2022 – 11 January 2023) 
commander-in-chief of the Russian Armed Forces Valerii Gerasimov (from 11 January 2023) 
Russia has suffered a remarkably large number of casualties in the ranks of its officers, including 12 generals. 
Missile attacks and aerial warfare 
Aerial warfare began the first day of the invasion. Dozens of missile attacks were recorded across both eastern and western Ukraine, reaching as far west as Lviv. 
By September, the Ukrainian air force had shot down about 55 Russian warplanes. In mid-October, Russian forces launched missile strikes against Ukrainian infrastructure, intended to knock out energy facilities. By late November, hundreds of civilians had been killed or wounded in the attacks, and rolling blackouts had left millions without power. 
In December, drones launched from Ukraine allegedly carried out several attacks on Dyagilevo and Engels air bases in western Russia, killing 10 and heavily damaging two Tu-95 aircraft. 
Crimea attacks 
On 31 July 2022, Russian Navy Day commemorations were cancelled after a drone attack reportedly wounded several people at the Russian Black Sea Fleet headquarters in Sevastopol. On 9 August 2022, large explosions were reported at Saky Air Base in western Crimea. Satellite imagery showed at least eight aircraft damaged or destroyed. Initial speculation attributed the explosions to long-range missiles, sabotage by special forces or an accident; Ukrainian general Valerii Zaluzhnyi claimed responsibility on 7 September. 
The base is near Novofedorivka, a destination popular with tourists. Traffic backed up at the Crimean Bridge after the explosions with queues of civilians trying to leave the area. A week later Russia blamed "sabotage" for explosions and a fire at an arms depot near Dzhankoi in northeastern Crimea that also damaged a railway line and power station. Russian regional head Sergei Aksyonov said that 2,000 people were evacuated from the area. On 18 August, explosions were reported at Belbek Air Base north of Sevastopol. On the morning of 8 October 2022, the Kerch Bridge linking occupied Crimea to Russia, partially collapsed due to an explosion. On 17 July 2023, there was another large explosion on the bridge. 
Russian attacks against Ukrainian civilian infrastructure 
Russia has carried out waves of strikes on Ukrainian electrical and water systems. On 15 November 2022, Russia fired 85 missiles at the Ukrainian power grid, causing major power outages in Kyiv and neighboring regions. On 31 December, Putin in his New Year address called the war against Ukraine a "sacred duty to our ancestors and descendants" as missiles and drones rained down on Kiev. 
On 10 March 2023, The New York Times reported that Russia had used new hypersonic missiles in a massive missile attack on Ukraine. Such missiles are more effective in evading conventional Ukrainian anti-missile defenses that had previously proved useful against Russia's conventional, non-hypersonic missile systems. 
Naval blockade and engagements 
Ukraine lies on the Black Sea, which has ocean access only through the Turkish-held Bosphorus and Dardanelles straits. On 28 February, Turkey invoked the 1936 Montreux Convention and sealed off the straits to Russian warships that were not registered to Black Sea home bases and returning to their ports of origin. It specifically denied passage through the Turkish Straits to four Russian naval vessels. On 24 February, the State Border Guard Service of Ukraine announced that Russian Navy ships had begun an attack on Snake Island. The guided missile cruiser Moskva and patrol boat Vasily Bykov bombarded the island with deck guns. The Russian warship identified itself and instructed the Ukrainians on the island to surrender. Their response was "Russian warship, go fuck yourself!" After the bombardment, a detachment of Russian soldiers landed and took control of Snake Island. Russia said on 26 February that US drones had supplied intelligence to the Ukrainian navy to help it target Russian warships in the Black Sea. The US denied this. 
By 3 March, Ukrainian forces in Mykolaiv scuttled the frigate Hetman Sahaidachny, the flagship of the Ukrainian navy, to prevent its capture by Russian forces. On 14 March, the Russian source RT reported that the Russian Armed Forces had captured about a dozen Ukrainian ships in Berdiansk, including the Polnocny-class landing ship Yuri Olefirenko. On 24 March, Ukrainian officials said that a Russian landing ship docked in Berdiansk—initially reported to be the Orsk and then its sister ship, the Saratov—was destroyed by a Ukrainian rocket attack. In March 2022, the UN International Maritime Organization (IMO) sought to create a safe sea corridor for commercial vessels to leave Ukrainian ports. On 27 March, Russia established a sea corridor 80 miles (130 km) long and 3 miles (4.8 km) wide through its Maritime Exclusion Zone, for the transit of merchant vessels from the edge of Ukrainian territorial waters southeast of Odesa. Ukraine closed its ports at MARSEC level 3, with sea mines laid in port approaches, until the end to hostilities. 
The Russian cruiser Moskva, the flagship of the Black Sea Fleet, was, according to Ukrainian sources and a US senior official, hit on 13 April by two Ukrainian Neptune anti-ship cruise missiles, setting the ship afire. The Russian Defence Ministry said the warship had suffered serious damage from a munition explosion caused by a fire, and that its entire crew had been evacuated. Pentagon spokesman John Kirby reported on 14 April that satellite images showed that the Russian warship had suffered a sizeable explosion onboard but was heading to the east for expected repairs and refitting in Sevastopol. Later the same day, the Russian Ministry of Defence stated that the Moskva had sunk while under tow in rough weather. On 15 April, Reuters reported that Russia launched an apparent retaliatory missile strike against the missile factory Luch Design Bureau in Kyiv where the Neptune missiles used in the Moskva attack were manufactured and designed. On 5 May, a US official confirmed that the US gave "a range of intelligence" (including real-time battlefield targeting intelligence) to assist in the sinking of the Moskva. 
In early May, Ukrainian forces launched counterattacks on Snake Island. The Russian Ministry of Defense claimed to have repelled these counterattacks. Ukraine released footage of a Russian Serna-class landing craft being destroyed in the Black Sea near Snake Island by a Ukrainian drone. The same day, a pair of Ukrainian Su-27s conducted a high-speed, low level bombing run on Russian-occupied Snake Island; the attack was captured on film by a Baykar Bayraktar TB2 drone. On 1 June, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov asserted that Ukraine's policy of mining its own harbours to impede Russia maritime aggression had contributed to the food export crisis, saying: "If Kyiv solves the problem of demining ports, the Russian Navy will ensure the unimpeded passage of ships with grain to the Mediterranean Sea." On 30 June 2022, Russia announced that it had withdrawn its troops from the island in a "gesture of goodwill." The withdrawal was later confirmed by Ukraine. 
Nuclear risk 
Four days into the invasion, President Putin placed Russia's nuclear forces on high alert, raising fears that Russia could use tactical nuclear weapons against Ukraine, or a wider escalation of the conflict could occur. Putin alluded in April to the use of nuclear weapons, and Russian foreign minister Sergei Lavrov said there was a "real" danger of a World War III. On 14 April, CIA director William Burns said that "potential desperation" in the face of defeat could encourage President Putin to use tactical nuclear weapons. In response to Russia's disregard of safety precautions during its occupation of the disabled former nuclear power plant at Chernobyl and its firing of missiles in the vicinity of the active Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, Zelenskyy called on 26 April for an international discussion on Russia's use of nuclear resources, saying: "no one in the world can feel safe knowing how many nuclear facilities, nuclear weapons and related technologies the Russian state has ... If Russia has forgotten what Chernobyl is, it means that global control over Russia's nuclear facilities, and nuclear technology is needed." 
In August 2022, shelling around Zaporizhzhia power plant became a crisis, prompting an emergency inspection by the IAEA. Ukraine described the crisis nuclear terrorism by Russia. On 19 September, President Biden warned of a "consequential response from the U.S." if Russia were to resort to using nuclear weapons in the conflict. Before the United Nations on 21 September Biden criticized Putin's nuclear sabre-rattling, calling Putin was "overt, reckless and irresponsible... A nuclear war cannot be won and must never be fought." In March 2023, Putin announced plans to install Russian tactical nuclear weapons in Belarus. 
Ukrainian resistance 
Ukrainian civilians resisted the Russian invasion by volunteering for territorial defence units, making Molotov cocktails, donating food, building barriers like Czech hedgehogs, and helping to transport refugees. Responding to a call from Ukravtodor, Ukraine's transportation agency, civilians dismantled or altered road signs, constructed makeshift barriers, and blocked roadways. Social media reports showed spontaneous street protests against Russian forces in occupied settlements, often evolving into verbal altercations and physical standoffs with Russian troops. By the beginning of April, Ukrainian civilians began to organise as guerrillas, mostly in the wooded north and east of the country. The Ukrainian military announced plans for a large-scale guerrilla campaign to complement its conventional defence. 
People physically blocked Russian military vehicles, sometimes forcing them to retreat. The Russian soldiers' response to unarmed civilian resistance varied from reluctance to engage the protesters, to firing into the air, to firing directly into crowds. There have been mass detentions of Ukrainian protesters, and Ukrainian media has reported forced disappearances, mock executions, hostage-taking, extrajudicial killings, and sexual violence perpetrated by the Russian military. To facilitate Ukrainian attacks, civilians reported Russian military positions via a Telegram chatbot and Diia, a Ukrainian government app previously used by citizens to upload official identity and medical documents. In response, Russian forces began destroying mobile phone network equipment, searching door-to-door for smartphones and computers, and in at least one case killed a civilian who had pictures of Russian tanks. 
As of 21 May 2022, Zelenskyy indicated that Ukraine had 700,000 service members on active duty fighting the Russian invasion. Ukraine withdrew soldiers and military equipment back to Ukraine over the course of 2022 that had been deployed to United Nations peacekeeping missions like MONUSCO in the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
The invasion received widespread international public condemnation. Some countries, particularly in the Global South, saw public sympathy or outright support for Russia, due in part to distrust of US foreign policy. Protests and demonstrations were held worldwide, including some in Russia and parts of Ukraine occupied by Russia. Calls for a boycott of Russian goods spread on social media platforms, while hackers attacked Russian websites, particularly those operated by the Russian government. Anti-Russian sentiment against Russians living abroad surged after the invasion. In March 2022, Russian President Putin introduced prison sentences of up to 15 years for publishing "fake news" about Russian military operations, intended to suppress any criticism related to the war. 
According to the Economist Intelligence Unit in 2023, 31 percent of the world's population live in countries that are leaning towards or supportive of Russia, 30.7 percent live in neutral countries, and 36.2 percent live in countries that are against Russia in some way. 
By October 2022, three countries—Latvia, Lithuania and Estonia—had declared Russia a "terrorist state." On 1 August, Iceland became the first European country to close its embassy in Russia as a result of the invasion of Ukraine. 
The invasion prompted Ukraine, Finland and Sweden to officially apply for NATO membership. Finland became a member of NATO in 4 April 2023, followed by Sweden in 7 March 2024. 
The Kiel Institute tracked $155.9 billion from 41 countries and European Union institutions in financial, humanitarian, and military aid to Ukraine from 24 January 2022 to 24 February 2023. NATO is coordinating and helping member states to provide billions of dollars in military equipment and financial aid to Ukraine. 
The United States has provided the most military assistance, having committed over $29.3 billion from 24 February 2022 to 3 February 2023.[e] Many NATO allies, including Germany, have reversed past policies against providing offensive military aid in order to support Ukraine. The European Union, for the first time in its history, supplied lethal arms, and has provided €3.1 billion to Ukraine. Bulgaria, a major manufacturer of Soviet-pattern weapons, has covertly supplied more than €2 billion worth of arms and ammunition to Ukraine, including a third of the ammunition needed by the Ukrainian military in the critical early phase of the invasion; Bulgaria also provides fuel supplies and has, at times, covered 40% of the fuel needed by the Ukrainian armed forces. 
Foreign involvement in the invasion has been worldwide and extensive, with support ranging from foreign military sales and aid, foreign military involvement, foreign sanctions and ramifications, and including foreign condemnation and protest. The US adopted a policy of "no boots on the ground" in Ukraine. Western and other countries imposed limited sanctions on Russia for recognising the separatist people's republics as independent nations. When the attack began, many countries applied new sanctions intended to cripple the Russian economy. The sanctions targeted individuals, banks, businesses, monetary exchanges, bank transfers, exports, and imports. 
Belarus has allowed Russia to use its territory to stage part of the invasion, and to launch Russian missiles into Ukraine. 
Politico reported in March 2023 that Chinese state-owned weapons manufacturer Norinco shipped assault rifles, drone parts, and body armor to Russia between June and December 2022, with some shipments via third countries including Turkey and the United Arab Emirates. According to the United States, Chinese ammunition has been used on battlefields in Ukraine. In May 2023, the EU identified that Chinese and UAE firms were supplying weapon components to Russia. 
On 21 September 2023, Poland said it would cease sending arms to Ukraine after a dispute between the two countries over grain. 
According to the US, North Korea has supplied Russia with ballistic missiles and launchers although US authorities did not mention the specific models. Based on debris left by missiles on 30 December 2023 attacks against Ukrainian targets show parts common to KN-23, KN-24 and KN-25 missiles. 
In February 2024, a Reuters report indicated that Iran sent ballistic missiles to the Russian military. G7 threatened Iran not to export missiles to Russia. 
Casualties 
Russian and Ukrainian sources have both been said to inflate the casualty numbers for opposing forces and downplay their own losses for the sake of morale. Leaked US documents say that "under-reporting of casualties within the [Russian] system highlights the military's 'continuing reluctance' to convey bad news up the chain of command." Russian news outlets have largely stopped reporting the Russian death toll. Russia and Ukraine have admitted suffering "significant" and "considerable" losses, respectively. BBC News has reported that Ukrainian reports of Russian casualty figures included the injured. 
The numbers of civilian and military deaths have been as always impossible to determine precisely. Agence France-Presse (AFP) reported that neither it nor independent conflict monitors were able to verify Russian and Ukrainian claims of enemy losses and suspected that they were inflated. On 12 October 2022, the independent Russian media project iStories, citing sources close to the Kremlin, reported that more than 90,000 Russian soldiers had been killed, seriously wounded, or gone missing in Ukraine. 
While combat deaths can be inferred from a variety of sources including satellite imagery of military action, civilian deaths can be more difficult. On 16 June 2022, the Ukrainian Minister of Defence told CNN that he believed that tens of thousands of Ukrainians had died, adding that he hoped that the total death toll was below 100,000. In the destroyed city of Mariupol alone, Ukrainian officials believe that at least 25,000 have been killed, and bodies were still being discovered in September 2022. The mayor said over 10,000 and possibly as many as 20,000 civilians died in the siege of Mariupol and that Russian forces had brought mobile cremation equipment with them when they entered the city. Researcher Dan Ciuriak from C. D. Howe Institute in August 2022 estimates the number of killed Mariupol civilians at 25,000, and an investigation by AP from the end of 2022 gives a number of up to 75,000 killed civilians in Mariupol area alone. AFP says that "a key gap in casualty counts is the lack of information from Russian-occupied places like the port city of Mariupol, where tens of thousands of civilians are believed to have died". The Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) reports similar issues and believed that the true civilian casualty numbers were significantly higher than it has been able to confirm. 
Prisoners of war 
Official and estimated numbers of prisoners of war (POW) have varied. On 24 February Oksana Markarova, Ukraine's ambassador to the US, said that a platoon of 74th Guards from Kemerovo Oblast had surrendered, saying they were unaware that they had been brought to Ukraine and tasked with killing Ukrainians. Russia claimed to have captured 572 Ukrainian soldiers by 2 March 2022, while Ukraine said it held 562 Russian soldiers as of 20 March. It also released one soldier for five of its own and exchanged another nine for the detained mayor of Melitopol. 
On 24 March 2022, 10 Russian and 10 Ukrainian soldiers, as well as 11 Russians and 19 Ukrainian civilian sailors, were exchanged. On 1 April 86 Ukrainian servicemen were exchanged for an unknown number of Russian troops. The Independent on 9 June 2022 cited an intelligence estimate of more than 5,600 Ukrainian soldiers captured, while the Russian servicemen held prisoner fell from 900 in April to 550 after several prisoner exchanges. 
An 25 August 2022 report by the Humanitarian Research Lab of the Yale School of Public Health identified some 21 filtration camps for Ukrainian "civilians, POWs, and other personnel" in the vicinity of Donetsk oblast. Imaging of one of these, Olenivka prison, found two sites with disturbed earth consistent with "potential graves." Kaveh Khoshnood, a professor at the Yale School of Public Health, said: "Incommunicado detention of civilians is more than a violation of international humanitarian law—it represents a threat to the public health of those currently in the custody of Russia and its proxies." Conditions described by freed prisoners include exposure, insufficient access to sanitation, food and water, cramped conditions, electrical shocks and physical assault. 
In late 2022, as Russian casualties exceeded 50,000, the Russian army introduced barrier troops. The U.K. defense ministry stated that these are units that threaten to shoot their own retreating soldiers in order to compel offensives. In March 2023, Russian soldiers filmed a video addressed to President Putin where they stated that after suffering casualties, they attempted to return to their headquarters but were denied evacuation by their superiors. They stated that barrier troops were placed behind them threatening to ″destroy them″. In particular, Storm-Z units have been reported to be ″kept in line″ by barrier troops. 
In March 2023, UN human rights commissioner Volker Türk reported that more than 90% of the Ukrainian POWs interviewed by his office, which could only include those who were released from Russia, said in Russia "they were tortured or ill-treated, notably in penitentiary facilities, including through so-called – it is an awful phrase – 'welcoming beatings' on their arrival, as well as frequent acts of torture throughout detention." 
In April 2023, several videos started circulating on different websites purportedly showing Russian soldiers beheading Ukrainian soldiers. Zelensky compared Russian soldiers to "beasts" after the footage was circulated. Russian officials opened an investigation of the footage shortly thereafter. 
War crimes and attacks on civilians 
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (February 2024) 
International arrest warrants 
The International Criminal Court (ICC) opened an investigation into possible crimes against humanity, genocide and war crimes. On 17 March 2023 the ICC issued a warrant for Putin's arrest, charging him with individual criminal responsibility in the abduction of children forcibly deported to Russia. It was the first time that the ICC had issued an arrest warrant for the head of state of a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council (the world's five principal nuclear powers). Moscow has denied any involvement in war crimes, a response Vittorio Bufacchi of University College in Cork says "has bordered on the farcical," and its contention that the images coming out of Bucha were fabricated "a disingenuous response born by delusional hubris, post-truth on overdrive, (that) does not merit to be taken seriously." Even the usually fractured United States Senate came together to call Putin a war criminal. One of several efforts to document Russian war crimes concerns its repeated bombardment of markets and bread lines, destruction of basic infrastructure and attacks on exports and supply convoys, in a country where deliberate starvation of Ukrainians by Soviets the Holodomor still looms large in public memory. Forcible deportation of populations, such as took place in Mariupol, is another area of focus, since "(f)orced deportations and transfers are defined both as war crimes under the Fourth Geneva Convention and Protocol II and Article 8 of the Rome Statute—and as crimes against humanity—under Article 7 of the Rome Statute. As both war crimes and crimes against humanity, they have several mechanisms for individual accountability, the International Criminal Court and also, at the individual state level, universal jurisdiction and Magnitsky sanctions legislation. 
Impacts 
Humanitarian impact 
The humanitarian impact of the invasion has been extensive and has included negative impacts on international food supplies and the 2022 food crises. An estimated 6.6 million Ukrainians were internally displaced by August 2022, and about the same number were refugees in other countries. The invasion has devastated the cultural heritage of Ukraine, with over 500 Ukrainian cultural heritage sites, including cultural centers, theatres, museums, and churches, affected by "Russian aggression." Ukraine's Minister of Culture called it cultural genocide. Deliberate destruction and looting of Ukrainian cultural heritage sites in this way is considered a war crime. 
The Russian attacks on civilians, causing mass civilian casualties and displacement, have been characterized as genocide and democide. On 15 September 2023, a U.N.-mandated investigative body presented their findings that Russian occupiers had tortured Ukrainians so brutally that some of their victims died, and forced families to listen as they raped women next door. The commission has previously said that violations committed by Russian forces in Ukraine, including the use of torture, may constitute crimes against humanity. 
A report by Physicians for Human Rights described Russian violence against the Ukrainian health care system as being a prominent feature of Russia's conduct during the war, documenting 707 attacks on Ukraine's health care system between 24 February and 31 December 2022. Such attacks are considered war crimes. 
Refugee crisis 
The war caused the largest refugee and humanitarian crisis in Europe since the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s; the UN described it as the fastest growing such crisis since World War II. As Russia built up military forces along the Ukrainian border, many neighbouring governments and aid organisations prepared for a mass displacement event in the weeks before the invasion. In December 2021, the Ukrainian defence minister estimated that an invasion could force three to five million people to flee their homes. 
In the first week of the invasion, the UN reported over a million refugees had fled Ukraine; this subsequently reached over eight million by 31 January 2023. On 20 May, NPR reported that, following a significant influx of foreign military equipment into Ukraine, a significant number of refugees are seeking to return to regions of Ukraine which are relatively isolated from the invasion front in southeastern Ukraine. However, by 3 May, another 8 million people were displaced inside Ukraine. 
Most refugees were women, children, elderly, or disabled. Most male Ukrainian nationals aged 18 to 60 were denied exit from Ukraine as part of mandatory conscription, unless they were responsible for the financial support of three or more children, single fathers, or were the parent/guardian of children with disabilities. Many Ukrainian men, including teenagers, opted to remain in Ukraine voluntarily to join the resistance. 
According to the UN High Commission for Refugees as of 13 May 2022, there were 3,315,711 refugees in Poland, 901,696 in Romania, 594,664 in Hungary, 461,742 in Moldova, 415,402 in Slovakia, and 27,308 in Belarus, while Russia reported it had received over 800,104 refugees. By 13 July 2022, over 390,000 Ukrainian refugees had arrived in the Czech Republic, where the average refugee was a woman accompanied by one child. These refugees were twice as likely to have a college degree as the Czech population as a whole. Turkey has been another significant destination, registering more than 58,000 Ukrainian refugees as of 22 March, and more than 58,000 as of 25 April. The EU invoked the Temporary Protection Directive for the first time in its history, granting Ukrainian refugees the right to live and work in the EU for up to three years. Britain has accepted 146,379 refugees, as well as extending the ability to remain in the UK for 3 years with broadly similar entitlements as the EU, three years residency and access to state welfare and services. 
According to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), Russia has engaged in "massive deportation" of over 1.3 million Ukrainian civilians, potentially constituting crimes against humanity. The OSCE and Ukraine have accused Russia of forcibly moving civilians to filtration camps in Russian-held territory, and then into Russia. Ukrainian sources have compared this policy to Soviet-era population transfers and Russian actions in the Chechen War of Independence. For instance, as of 8 April, Russia claimed to have evacuated about 121,000 Mariupol residents to Russia. Also, on 19 October, Russia announced the forced deportation of 60,000 civilians from areas around the line of contact in Kherson oblast. RIA Novosti and Ukrainian officials said that thousands were dispatched to various centers in cities in Russia and Russian-occupied Ukraine, from which people were sent to economically depressed regions of Russia. In April, Ukraine's National Security and Defence Council secretary Oleksiy Danilov said that Russia planned to build "concentration camps" for Ukrainians in western Siberia, and likely planned to force prisoners to build new cities in Siberia.[h] 
Long-term demographic effects 
Both Russia and Ukraine faced the prospect of significant population decline even before the war, having among the lowest fertility rates worldwide and considerable emigration. It is the first time that two countries with an average age above 40 have gone to war against each other. Russia had a fighting-age (18- to 40-year-old) male population more than four times higher than Ukraine's and slightly higher birth rates, while the willingness to fight was more pronounced in Ukraine. 
Several sources have pointed out that the war is considerably worsening Ukraine's demographic crisis, making significant shrinking very likely. A July 2023 study by the Vienna Institute for International Economic Studies stated that "[r]egardless of how long the war lasts and whether or not there is further military escalation, Ukraine is unlikely to recover demographically from the consequences of the war. Even in 2040 it will have only about 35 million inhabitants, around 20% fewer than before the war (2021: 42.8 million) and the decline in the working-age population is likely to be the most severe and far-reaching." The study took different scenarios, from a "best case" (end of the war in 2023 without much further escalation) to a "worst case" (end of the war in 2025 with further escalation) into account. Flight from war affected especially the southern and eastern regions and especially educated women of child-bearing age and their children. With an estimate of more than 20% of refugees not returning, study author Maryna Tverdostup concluded that long-term shrinking will significantly impair the conditions for reconstruction. 
The war in Ukraine and the associated emigration, lower birth rates and war-related casualties further deepened the demographic crisis of Russia. Many commentators predict that the situation will be worse than during the 1990s. The UN is projecting that the decline that started in 2021 will continue, and if current demographic conditions persist, Russia's population would be 120 million in fifty years, a decline of about 17%. 
Since February 2022, hundreds of thousands of Russians have emigrated; estimates range from 370,000 to over 820,000. Combined with mobilization, this possibly removed roughly half a million to one million working-age males from Russia's population. Studies report that this will have a demographic effect, especially in Russia, that lasts much longer than the conflict, and Putin's time in office. 
They come from different walks of life. Some are journalists like us, but there are also IT experts, designers, artists, academics, lawyers, doctors, PR specialists, and linguists. Most are under 50. Many share western liberal values and hope Russia will be a democratic country one day. Some are LGBTQ+. Sociologists studying the current Russian emigration say there is evidence that those leaving are younger, better educated and wealthier than those staying. More often they are from bigger cities. 
According to Johannes Wachs, "The exodus of skilled human capital, sometimes called brain drain, out of Russia may have a significant effect on the course of the war and the Russian economy in the long run." According to a survey, around 15 percent of those who left returned to Russia, either permanently or to settle their affairs. 
In November 2023, at the World Russian People's Council, Putin urged Russian women to have eight or more children amid increasing Russian casualties in the invasion. 
Environmental impact 
Based on a preliminary assessment, the war has inflicted USD 51 billion in environmental damage in Ukraine; according to a report by the Yale School of the Environment, some 687,000 tons of petrochemicals have burned as a result of shelling, while nearly 1,600 tons of pollutants have leaked into bodies of water. Hazardous chemicals have contaminated around 70 acres of soil, and likely made agricultural activities temporarily impossible. Around 30% of Ukraine's land is now littered with explosives and more than 2.4 million hectares of forest have been damaged. 
According to Netherlands-based peace organization PAX, Russia's "deliberate targeting of industrial and energy infrastructure" has caused "severe" pollution, and the use of explosive weapons has left "millions of tonnes" of contaminated debris in cities and towns. In early June 2023, the Kakhovka Dam, under Russian occupation, was damaged, causing flooding and triggering warnings of an "ecological disaster." 
The Ukrainian government, international observers and journalists have described the damage as ecocide. The Ukrainian government is investigating more crimes against the environment and ecocide (a crime in Ukraine). Zelenskyy has met with prominent European figures (Heidi Hautala, Margot Wallstrom, Mary Robinson and Greta Thunberg) to discuss the environmental damage and how to prosecute it. 
Peace efforts 
Peace negotiations between Russia and Ukraine took place on 28 February, 3 March, and 7 March 2022, in the Gomel Region on the Belarus–Ukraine border, with further talks held on 10 March in Turkey and a fourth round of negotiations beginning 14 March. 
On 13 July, Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said that peace talks were frozen and Ukraine must first recover the lost territories in the east of the country, before negotiations come. On 19 July, former Russian President and current Deputy head of the Russian Security Council Dmitry Medvedev, said: "Russia will achieve all its goals. There will be peace – on our terms." 
Putin's spokesperson Dmitry Peskov and Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov said that any peace plan could only proceed from Ukraine's recognition of Russia's sovereignty over the regions it annexed from Ukraine in September 2022. By 29 December, following the Russian declared annexation of multiple Ukrainian oblasts, hopes for Ukrainian peace talks with Russia dimmed significantly with Russia taking a hardline position that the full Russian occupation of the four oblasts would be non-negotiable under any circumstances. In addition, Zelenskyy announced that Ukraine would not hold peace talks with Russia while Putin was president and signed a decree to ban such talks. In January 2023, Putin's spokesperson Peskov said that "there is currently no prospect for diplomatic means of settling the situation around Ukraine." In December 2023, The New York Times reported that Putin has been signaling through intermediaries since at least September 2022 that "he is open to a ceasefire that freezes the fighting along the current lines." 
In May 2023, UN Secretary-General António Guterres said peace negotiations to end the Russo-Ukrainian War were "not possible at this moment", saying it was clear that Russia and Ukraine were "completely absorbed in this war" and each "convinced that they can win." 
In June 2023, Ukrainian Defense Minister Oleksii Reznikov said that the peace plans presented by China, Brazil and Indonesia are attempts at mediation on behalf of Russia, and "they all currently want to be mediators on Russia's side. That's why this sort of mediation currently doesn't fit for us at all because they aren't impartial." He said that Ukraine was willing to accept China as a mediator only if Beijing could convince Russia to withdraw from all the territories it had occupied. 
Notes 
^ a b The Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic were Russian-controlled puppet states that declared their independence from Ukraine in May 2014. In 2022 they received international recognition from each other, Russia, Syria and North Korea, and some other partially recognised states. On 30 September 2022, after a referendum, Russia declared it had formally annexed both entities. 
^ Including military, paramilitary, and 34,000 separatist militias. 
^ By early September 2022 the US had given 126 M777 howitzer cannons and over 800,000 rounds of 155 mm ammunition for them. By January 2023 the US had donated 250,000 more 155 mm shells to Ukraine. The US is producing 14,000 155 mm shells monthly and plans to increase production to 90,000 shells per month by 2025. 
^ See here for a detailed breakdown of civilian deaths by oblast, according to Ukrainian authorities. 
^ The DPR said 1,285 civilians were killed and 4,243 wounded between 1 January 2022 and 22 June 2023, of which 8 died and 23 were wounded between 1 January and 25 February 2022, leaving a total of 1,277 killed and 4,220 wounded in the period of the Russian invasion. 
^ Most likely, new cities meant new industrial cities in Siberia, the construction plans of which were announced by Shoigu in the fall of 2021. 
^ "Ukraine", The World Factbook, Central Intelligence Agency, 2023-01-18, retrieved 2023-01-19 
^ Plokhy, Serhii (16 May 2023). The Russo-Ukrainian War: From the bestselling author of Chernobyl. Penguin Books. ISBN 978-1-80206-179-6. ... If the collapse of the USSR was sudden and largely bloodless, growing strains between its two largest successors would develop into limited fighting in the Donbas in 2014 and then into all-out warfare in 2022, causing death, destruction, and a refugee crisis on a scale not seen in Europe since the Second World War. 
Evans, Michael (5 April 2008). "President tells summit he wants security and friendship". The Times. p. 46. President Putin, in a bravura performance before the world's media at the end of the Nato summit, warned President Bush and other alliance leaders that their plan to expand eastwards to Ukraine and Georgia "didn't contribute to trust and predictability in our relations. 
^ Brown, Colin (3 April 2008). "EU allies unite against Bush over Nato membership for Georgia and Ukraine". The Independent. p. 24. 
^ Dinan, Desmond; Nugent, Neil (eds.). The European Union in Crisis. Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 3, 274. 
Dinan, Desmond; Nugent, Neil (eds.). The European Union in Crisis. Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 3, 274. 
^ "Article by Vladimir Putin 'On the Historical Unity of Russians and Ukrainians'". President of Russia. 12 July 2021. Archived from the original on 19 February 2022. Retrieved 26 January 2022. ... the outcome of both Minsk‑1 and Minsk‑2 which give a real chance to peacefully restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine by coming to an agreement directly with the DPR and LPR with Russia, Germany and France as mediators, contradicts the entire logic of the anti-Russia project. 
^ Farley, Robert; Kiely, Eugene (24 February 2022). "Russian Rhetoric Ahead of Attack 66 Ukraine: Deny, Deflect, Mislead". FactCheck.org. Annenberg Public Policy Center. Archived from the original on 27 February 2022. Retrieved 26 February 2022. Nov. 28 – ... 'Russia has never hatched, is not hatching and will never hatch any plans to attack anyone,' Peskov said. ... 19 Jan – ... Ryabkov ... 'We do not want and will not take any action of aggressive character. We will not attack, strike, invade, quote unquote, whatever Ukraine.' 
^ Fořtová, Klára (8 March 2022). "Velvyslanec Ukrajiny v Česku denně promlouvá, ruský mlčí a je 'neviditelný'" [Ukraine's ambassador to the Czech Republic speaks daily, the Russian is silent and 'invisible']. Mladá fronta DNES (in Czech). Archived from the original on 8 March 2022. Retrieved 10 March 2022. Zmejevský ... 'Důrazně jsme odmítli jako nepodložená obvinění Ruska z přípravy, agrese vůči Ukrajině a fámy o vstupu ruských jednotek na ukrajinské území,' stojí v něm. [Zmeevsky ... 'We emphatically dismissed Russia's allegations of preparation, aggression against Ukraine and rumors of Russian troops entering Ukrainian territory,' he said.] 
^ Snyder, Timothy D. (18 January 2022). "How to think about war in Ukraine". Thinking about... (newsletter). Substack. Archived from the original on 19 January 2022. Retrieved 25 January 2022. Historically speaking, the idea that a dictator in another country decides who is a nation and who is not is known as imperialism. 
^ Roth, Andrew (7 December 2021). "Putin's Ukraine rhetoric driven by distorted view of neighbor". The Guardian. Archived from the original on 7 December 2021. Retrieved 25 January 2021. fear has gone hand-in-hand with chauvinistic bluster that indicates Moscow has a distorted view of modern Ukraine and the goals it wants to achieve there. 
Dickinson, Peter; Haring, Melinda; Lubkivsky, Danylo; Motyl, Alexander; Whitmore, Brian; Goncharenko, Oleksiy; Fedchenko, Yevhen; Bonner, Brian; Kuzio, Taras (15 July 2021). "Putin's new Ukraine essay reveals imperial ambitions". Atlantic Council. Archived from the original on 15 July 2021. Retrieved 25 September 2023. Vladimir Putin's inaccurate and distorted claims are neither new nor surprising. They are just the latest example of gaslighting by the Kremlin leader. 
Wilson, Andrew (23 December 2021). "Russia and Ukraine: 'One People' as Putin Claims?". Royal United Services Institute. Archived from the original on 24 January 2022. Retrieved 25 January 2022. Putin's key trope is that Ukrainians and Russians are 'one people', and he calls them both 'Russian'. He starts with a myth of common origin: 'Russians, Ukrainians and Belarusians are all descendants of Ancient Rus', which was the largest state in Europe' from the 9th to 13th centuries AD. 
^ Boffey, Daniel (7 August 2023). "Zelenskiy assassination plot foiled by security service, says Ukraine". The Guardian. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved 11 September 2023. More than 400 Russian mercenaries from the Wagner group were reported to have been in Kyiv in February 2022 with orders to kill Zelenskiy as part of a "decapitation strategy". 
^ CBS News Videos. "Russia bombards Kyiv, vows to strike new targets if U.S. sends long-range missiles to Ukraine". 6 June 2022.  
^ a b Hird, Karolina; Barros, George; Philipson, Layne; Kagan, Frederick W. (6 September 2022). Russian offensive campaign assessment, September 6 (PDF) (Report). Institute for the Study of War. Retrieved 10 September 2022. 
^ Hird, Karolina; Mappes, Grace; Barros, George; Philipson, Layne; Clark, Mason (7 September 2022). "Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, September 7". Institute for the Study of War. Retrieved 10 September 2022 – via understandingwar.org. 
^ Stepanenko, Kateryna; Mappes, Grace; Barros, George; Philipson, Layne; Clark, Mason (8 September 2022). "Russian Offensive Campaign Assessment, September 8". Institute for the Study of War. Retrieved 10 September 2022 – via understandingwar.org. 
^ The New York Times. 10 March 2023. "Russia Fires Hypersonic Missiles In Largest Air Assault in Weeks." By Andrew E. Kramer. 
^ Lister, Tim; Pennington, Josh (24 February 2022). "February 24, 2022 Russia-Ukraine news". CNN. Entry: Audio emerges appearing to be of Ukrainian fighters defending island from Russian warship. Archived from the original on 25 February 2022. Retrieved 25 February 2022. 
^ Natasha Turoc, "Biden warns of 'consequential' response from U.S. if Putin uses nuclear weapons". CNBC, 19 September 2022.  
^ Ivshina, Olga; Prosvirova, Olga (21 March 2022). "BBC investigation reveals confirmed Russian military deaths". BBC News. Retrieved 21 March 2022. Ukrainian military sources say that so far as many as 15,000 have been killed, though this figure may include injured as well as dead. 
^ "The Cost of War to Ukraine". The Royal United Services Institute for Defence and Security Studies. Retrieved 8 October 2023. 
^ Cite error: The named reference was invoked but never defined (see the help page). 
^ Cite error: The named reference was invoked but never defined (see the help page). 
^ Cite error: The named reference was invoked but never defined (see the help page). 
^ Cite error: The named reference was invoked but never defined (see the help page). 
^ Kulu, Hill; Christison, Sarah; Liu, Chia; Mikolai, Júlia (30 March 2023). "The war, refugees, and the future of Ukraine's population". Population, Space and Place. 29 (4). doi:10.1002/psp.2656. hdl:10023/27301. S2CID 257876682. 
Roshchina, Olena (28 February 2022). Переговори делегацій України та Росії почалися [Negotiations between the delegations of Ukraine and Russia began]. Українська правда [Ukrainska Pravda] (in Ukrainian). Archived from the original on 14 March 2022. Retrieved 7 March 2022. Деталі: Переговори відбуваються на Гомельщині на березі річки Прип'ять. Із міркувань безпеки точне місце організатори переговорів не називають. [Details: Negotiations are taking place in the Gomel region on the banks of the Pripyat River. For security reasons, the organisers of the talks did not name the exact location.] 
^ Bengali, Shashank (29 December 2022). "Hopes for Talks Dim in Ukraine As Sides Dig In". The New York Times. p. 1. 
Harding, Luke. Invasion: The Inside Story of Russia's Bloody War and Ukraine's Fight for Survival. 2022. Vintage Press. 


People walk past part of a rocket that wedged on the ground in Lysychansk in Luhansk region on Friday. Photograph: Léo Corrêa/AP 
This article is more than 1 year old 
Russia’s war in Ukraine: complete guide in maps, video and pictures 
This article is more than 1 year old 
People walk past part of a rocket that wedged on the ground in Lysychansk in Luhansk region on Friday. Photograph: Léo Corrêa/AP 
Where is fighting happening and how did we get here? 
What is happening? 
Hundreds of Ukrainian fighters, including wounded men carried out on stretchers, left the vast steel plant in Mariupol where they had mounted a dogged last stand and turned themselves over to Russian hands. 
More than 260 fighters left the Azovstal plant — their last redoubt in the southern port city — on Monday and were transported to two towns controlled by Moscow-backed separatists, officials on both sides said. Other fighters — their precise numbers unknown — remain inside the ruins of the fortified mill that sprawls over 4 square mile in the otherwise now Russian-held city. 
Azovstal’s fall marks the complete capture of Mariupol, a significant milestone in one of the bloodiest battles of the war. 
Footage published over the weekend showed the steelworks being bombarded. 
Wrapping up Mariupol’s capture would give Russia an unbroken land bridge to the Crimean Peninsula, which it annexed from Ukraine in 2014, and also deprives Ukraine of a vital port. It could also free up Russian forces for fighting elsewhere in the industrial heartland of eastern Ukraine. 
Severodonetsk 
Fighting is increasingly focusing on the Severodonetsk, the easternmost city still held by Ukrainian forces after more than 11 weeks of war, and an a effort to complete a wider encirclement of Ukraine’s defending forces in the Donbas appears to have failed. 
A smaller-scale encirclement of Severodonetsk also failed last week after Russian forces were defeated with heavy losses in a series of unsuccessful attempts to cross the Siverskyi Donets River at Bilohorivka. 
The river is increasingly becoming a dividing line between the two sides in the Donbas – the name given collectively to the Donetsk and Luhansk regions – and around Kharkiv to the north. 
What happened in first three weeks of the invasion? 
How did we get here? 
In the months before its invasion, Russia deployed hundreds of tanks, self-propelled artillery and short-range ballistic missiles from as far away as Siberia to within striking range of Ukraine. 
Moscow’s rhetoric grew more belligerent. Putin demanded legal guarantees that Ukraine would never join Nato or host its missile strike systems, concessions he was unlikely to receive. A flurry of diplomatic activity did little to ease tensions. 
The invasion was preceded on 22 February by Putin saying Russia would recognise the territorial claims of self-proclaimed republics in Luhansk and Donetsk. He had already ordered his forces into Russian-controlled territory in Ukraine. 
What do we know about Russia’s deployments? 
Scores of battalion tactical groups – the smallest operational unit in Russia’s army, consisting of about 800-1,000 troops – were put in place near the borders of Ukraine in Russia and Belarus before the invasion. 
As of 18 February, the US estimated that Russia had 169,000-190,000 personnel in and around Ukraine. 
An estimated 32,000 separatist forces were already operating in the breakaway areas in Donetsk and Luhansk – some of whom were likely to be unacknowledged Russian forces – before the invasion. 
Many of the heavy weapons stationed near Ukraine arrived as far back as spring 2021. Over the new year Russia also began to move tanks, artillery, air-defence systems and fighter jets to Belarus for joint exercises in February. That deployment then grew. 
These satellite image composites show the buildup of troops in Yelnya and Pogonovo over the new year. 
Satellite photographs also showed increased deployments in Novoozernoye, in western Crimea. 
Satellite images taken on 20 February showed troops and equipment being moved from holding areas to potential launch locations. 
How do the militaries compare? 
Russia’s invasion pits the Kremlin’s large, recently modernised military against an adversary largely using older versions of the same or similar equipment, dating back to the Soviet era. 
Russia has significant numerical advantages on land, and in particular in the air and at sea, although Ukrainians are defending their homeland. 
What is the historical context? 
In 2014 Putin sent troops to annex Crimea, a mainly Russian-speaking region of Ukraine. Russia also incited a separatist uprising in Ukraine’s south-east, clandestinely sending soldiers and weapons to provoke a conflict that grew into a full-blown war. 
A 2015 peace deal established a line of demarcation and called on both sides to make concessions. After that, low-level fighting continued along the front, and each side accused the other of violating the agreement. 
Going back further, Russia has long opposed any attempts by Ukraine to move towards the EU and Nato. 
One of Putin’s oft-repeated demands was a guarantee that Ukraine would never join Nato, the alliance of 30 countries that has expanded eastwards since the end of the cold war. 
What was the role of Nord Stream 2? 
First announced in 2015, the $11bn (£8.3bn) pipeline owned by Russia’s state-backed energy firm Gazprom was built to carry gas from western Siberia to Lubmin in Germany’s north-east, doubling the existing capacity of the Nord Stream 1 pipeline and keeping 26m German homes warm at an affordable price. 
Nord Stream 2, Europe’s most divisive energy project, bypassed the traditional gas transit nation of Ukraine by running along the bed of the Baltic Sea. 
It faced resistance within the EU, and from the US as well as Ukraine, on the grounds that it increased Europe’s energy dependence on Russia, denied Ukraine transit fees, and made it more vulnerable to Russian invasion. 


Create an account 
Analysing the impacts of Russia's invasion of Ukraine on energy markets and energy security 
Russia's War on Ukraine 
The new energy world 
The global energy landscape has changed dramatically 
The energy sector continues to feel the effects of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which in February 2022 sparked the first truly global energy crisis. Two years on, energy prices have pulled back from record highs, but trends vary widely among regions. In many parts of the world, prices are still elevated – holding back economic growth, straining the finances of households and businesses, and complicating efforts to improve access to electricity. Energy markets, faced with an unusually high degree of geopolitical uncertainty, remain on edge. 
In Ukraine, the energy sector is on the front line of the war for the second consecutive winter. As temperatures have dropped, Russia has resumed a broad military offensive targeting power plants and other key energy infrastructure across the country, which in 2022 and 2023 caused extensive damage and left many Ukrainians without reliable supplies of electricity or heat for long periods. Recent improvements to Ukraine’s air defence systems have helped safeguard power supply this winter, but Russia’s attacks are ongoing, and additional resources are needed to tackle structural problems that persist within the country’s power sector. 
Meanwhile, the war continues to reshape the global energy system in profound ways. Trade patterns for oil and natural gas have shifted dramatically since Russia’s invasion as governments look to strengthen their energy security. At the same time, cleaner alternatives to fossil fuels are growing faster than ever. Due in part to policies unveiled by governments after February 2022, the world’s capacity to produce renewable power is expanding at a remarkable pace, while the popularity of clean technologies such as electric vehicles and heat pumps is surging. The biggest legacy of the global energy crisis triggered by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine may be that it accelerates the end of the fossil fuel era – with IEA projections now showing that under today’s policy settings, demand for oil, gas and coal is set to peak within the decade. 
The IEA is partnering with Ukraine as it bolsters its energy security 
The IEA and many of our member countries are working closely with Ukraine to help the country’s energy system recover from Russia’s attacks and lay the groundwork for its transition to a secure and sustainable energy future. 
The IEA and Ukraine have a long history of collaboration dating back to 2007. In July 2022, Ukraine officially joined the IEA Family as an Association country, and a two-year Joint Work Programme was signed in December 2022. Through the exchange of data, analysis and policy advice, the IEA is supporting Ukraine’s efforts to reconstruct and modernise its energy sector, further integrate its energy system with the European Union’s, and drive down carbon emissions – core objectives outlined in the government’s 2050 energy strategy. 
In the past year, the IEA has also convened three workshops with Ukrainian stakeholders, including one in Kyiv. These workshops had a strong focus on the benefits of leveraging distributed energy resources such as solar PV in Ukraine. 
With the displacement of people and industry during the war shifting patterns of energy consumption, distributed resources – which have a shorter lead-time for deployment than conventional generation – can help meet demand where it is needed the most. Greater deployment of distributed energy resources would also reduce the power system’s vulnerability to Russian attacks – and could help Ukraine meet its ambition to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 65% by 2030 compared with 1990 levels. 
Tracking impacts 
Russia remains a top oil exporter, but its revenues have dropped 
Despite harsh international sanctions following its invasion of Ukraine, Russia continues to play an outsized role in world oil markets. In 2023, it remained the third largest producer of oil behind the United States and Saudi Arabia, the world’s second largest oil exporter behind the United States, and the biggest net exporter globally. 
Russian oil export volumes remained stable year-over-year in 2023 at 7.5 million barrels per day, with a slight loss in crude offset by an equivalent gain in oil products. While overall exports to the European Union, the United States, the United Kingdom and OECD Asia stood at negligible levels, dropping 4.3 million barrels per day below their pre-war average, shipments rose sharply to India, China, Türkiye and countries in the Middle East. 
Even so, the monthly average of Russia’s export revenues from commercial oil tumbled in 2023 by USD 4.2 billion year-over-year. This was the result of G7 price caps, increasing discounts for Russian crude and a broader decline in global oil prices. 
Average Russian oil exports by country and region, 2021-2023 
The EU has reduced its dependence on Russian gas 
The IEA was among the first to raise concerns about the European Union’s growing dependence on Russian natural gas. As production within the bloc fell, Russia's share of total EU gas demand rose to an average of over 40% between 2018 and 2021 from 26% in 2010. 
After it invaded Ukraine in 2022, Russia cut 80 billion cubic metres (bcm) of pipeline gas supplies to Europe, plunging the region into an energy crisis. While the European Union committed to phase out Russian fossil fuel imports “as soon as possible,” it faced an immediate energy deficit it needed to fill. Due to a slowdown in gas deliveries from Russia’s Gazprom even before the war, as well as unusually weak hydropower and nuclear output, the EU ultimately had to account for 160 bcm of “missing gas” in 2022. 
According to IEA analysis, alternative sources of supply – most notably liquefied natural gas (LNG) from the United States – met over 40% of this deficit. However, the main adjustments were on the demand side. Gas use in industry fell by almost 25%, while a mild winter reduced consumption by 10%. New renewable energy capacity and efficiency improvements together lowered gas demand by another 10%. Burning more coal filled less than 4% of the gap. 
Natural gas from Russia met less than a quarter of the European Union’s total gas demand in 2022. In 2023, the share declined to roughly 10%, as pipeline deliveries from Russia dropped another 38 bcm and the United States reinforced its position as the EU’s largest LNG supplier. 
Share of European Union gas demand met by Russian supply, 2001-2023 
The world’s capacity to generate renewable energy is growing at a record pace 
Under existing policies and market conditions, global renewable power capacity is now expected to grow to 7 300 GW by 2028, with renewables overtaking coal to become the largest source of global electricity generation by early 2025. 
This historic shift comes as governments around the world ramp up support for renewable energy production, seeking to bolster their domestic energy security in the wake of the 2022 crisis while making progress towards climate targets. The Inflation Reduction Act in the United States, the REPowerEU plan in Europe and the GX Green Transformation programme in Japan are just a few examples of the strong action by policymakers taken after Russia’s invasion. 
At COP28 in Dubai, nearly 200 governments agreed to triple global renewable energy capacity by 2030, which would take it above 11 000 GW – in line with the IEA’s pathway to build an energy system with net zero emissions by 2050. IEA analysis shows that with stronger policy implementation, that target could be within reach, with capacity currently on track to increase 2.5 times. 
Cumulative renewable electricity capacity in the main and accelerated cases and Net Zero Scenario, 2021-2030 
IEA's immediate response 
The IEA has been at the forefront of managing the global energy crisis that resulted from Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. 
On two occasions, IEA member countries agreed to take the exceptional step of releasing oil from their emergency reserves to reduce the strains in markets and send a unified message that there would be no shortfall in supplies as a result of Russia’s invasion. 
In the first collective action following the invasion, agreed on 1 March 2022, IEA member countries committed to release 62.7 million barrels of emergency oil stocks. On 1 April, they agreed to make a further 120 million barrels available from emergency reserves. This was the largest stock release in the IEA’s history and coincided with the release of additional barrels from the US Strategic Petroleum Reserve. The two coordinated drawdowns in 2022 were the fourth and fifth in the history of the IEA, which was created in 1974. Previous collective actions were taken in 1991, 2005 and 2011. 
Subscription successful 
Thank you for subscribing. You can unsubscribe at any time by clicking the link at the bottom of any IEA newsletter. 


Skip links 
Russia-Ukraine war in maps and charts: Live Tracker 
The Russian offensive enters its 1O9th week, we track where battles are taking place and the human cost of war. 
Updated: 
20 Mar 2024 
09:49 AM (GMT) 
The Russian offensive enters its 109th week, we track where the fighting is happening and how we got here. 
Read on for an overview of the situation in infographics and maps. 
Where are people fleeing to? 
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, there have been 31.8 million border crossings out of Ukraine since the Russian invasion began in February 2022. Many people have sought refuge in neighbouring countries. 
The latest data show 17,293,665 border crossings into Poland, 4,131,755 to Romania, 2,852,395 to Russia, 4,382,490 to Hungary, 2,116,465 to Slovakia, 1,027,460 to Moldova and 16,705 into Belarus. Most of those displaced have been women and children. Men aged 18 to 60 have been asked to remain in Ukraine to fight. 
Ukraine and Russia explained in ten maps and charts 
Below are ten infographics that break down the history, politics and economics of the Ukraine-Russia crisis. 
1. Conflict at a glance 
After months of tensions and intense diplomacy, Russian forces invaded Ukraine. Explosions were heard across the country. Kyiv declared martial law, saying Ukraine will defend itself. Below is a summary of the conflict at a glance. 
2. History of the USSR 
Russia and Ukraine were part of the 15 Soviet republics that made up the Soviet Union. Following the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991, Ukraine declared independence on August 24. The map below shows when each of these countries declared independence. 
3. Political leadership 
After independence, Ukraine moved to shed its Russian imperial legacy and forge increasingly close ties with the West. 
Over the past 30 years, Ukraine has been led by seven presidents. The country has had a rocky path towards democracy with two revolutions, first in 2005 and then in 2014. Both times, protesters rejected Russia’s supremacy and sought a path to join the European Union and NATO. 
By comparison, Russia has been led by three presidents, with Putin having been in office for 17 years. In 2021, Putin, the former agent of the Soviet Union’s KGB security services, signed a law that essentially enables him to stay in power until 2036. 
Putin has repeatedly claimed that Russians and Ukrainians belong to “one people” and are part of the historical “Russian civilisation” that also includes neighbouring Belarus. Ukrainians reject his claims. 
4. How big are Ukraine and Russia? 
Ukraine has an estimated population of 44 million – the seventh-largest in Europe. The country comprises 24 regions, known as oblasts. The country’s population has declined since the 1990s with fertility rates among the lowest in the world. As of 2020, Ukraine’s fertility rate was just 1.2. For context, in order for a population to remain stable, an overall total fertility rate of 2.1 is required. 
Ukraine is the second-largest country in Europe, after Russia. At 603,550sq km (233,031sq miles), Ukraine is a bit smaller than the US state of Texas, about three times smaller than India, half the size of South Africa and about two and a half times the size of the United Kingdom. 
5. NATO in Europe 
NATO is the world’s most powerful military alliance. Comprising 30 nations, its primary role is to protect its member states by political and military means. 
Russia opposes NATO bases near its borders and has asked for written guarantees that NATO will not expand eastwards. One of the Kremlin’s central demands is that Ukraine never be allowed to join NATO – a move it considers a red line. The United States has refused to concede to this demand. 
6. Military head to head 
Russia has one of the most powerful militaries in the world and ranks among the top five defence spenders. 
In 2020, Russia spent $61.7bn on its military, which accounted for 11.4 percent of government spending. In comparison, Ukraine spent $5.9bn on its armed forces, or 8.8 percent of government spending, according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. 
Since tensions began, NATO allies, fearful of a potential ground invasion by Russia, have stepped up support for Kyiv by sending military equipment to Ukraine. 
Read more about the military capabilities of Russia and Ukraine here. 
7. Oil and gas resources 
Russia and Ukraine are both rich in oil and gas. Russia has the world’s highest proven gas reserves at 48,938 billion cubic metres. More than 70 percent of the country’s gas reserves are held by Gazprom, a state-owned energy giant. 
Russia supplies about one-third of Europe’s natural gas. US sanctions over the conflict could disrupt that supply, exacerbating Europe’s energy crisis. On February 22, Germany halted the certification of Nord Stream 2, an $11.6bn Russian gas pipeline project that was designed to move 151 million cubic metres of gas a day into Europe. 
Russia also has some of the largest proven oil reserves, at 80 billion barrels, or 5 percent of the world’s total. 
Ukraine, too, has a sizeable reserve of oil and gas at 395 million barrels and 349 billion cubic metres, respectively. The country sits at the crossroads between the West and Russia, and plays a key role in delivering Russian gas to European markets. 
Read more about the world’s oil and gas pipelines here. 
8. Russia and Ukraine’s main exports 
More than one-quarter of the world’s wheat exports come from Russia and Ukraine. Economic sanctions or military action may have a significant effect on the cost of food as importers seek to find alternatives. Russia exported $407bn in products and Ukraine $49bn in 2019. 
Read more about Russia, Ukraine and the global wheat supply here. 
9. Which countries rely most on Russian oil? 
In 2019, the world’s top exporters of crude oil were Saudi Arabia ($145bn), Russia ($123bn), Iraq ($73.8bn), Canada ($67.8bn), and the US ($61.9bn). 
China bought about one-quarter (27 percent) of Russia’s total oil exports worth $34bn. However, given China’s massive energy needs, this made up only 16 percent of the country’s oil imports. 
At least 48 countries imported Russian crude oil in 2019. The countries that rely most on Russian oil include: Belarus, Cuba, Curacao, Kazakhstan, Latvia – each importing more than 99 percent of their crude oil from Russia. 
The graphic below shows how much of each country’s total crude oil imports come from Russia. 
Read more about what a ban on Russian oil means here. 
10. Which countries buy the most Russian weapons? 
Russia is the world’s second-largest arms exporter, behind the United States, accounting for roughly 20 percent of global weapons sales. Between 2016 and 2020, Moscow sold $28bn of weapons to 45 countries. 
Russia exports nearly 90 percent of its arms to 10 countries. Its biggest customer, India, bought 23 percent of Russia’s weapons for some $6.5bn over the past five years. Half of India’s total arms imports, 49.3 percent, come from Russia. 
China is the second-largest buyer of Russian weaponry at $5.1bn over the same period followed by Algeria ($4.2bn), Egypt ($3.3bn), and Vietnam ($1.7bn), according to the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI). 


ShareShare Article via FacebookShare Article via TwitterShare Article via LinkedInShare Article via Email 
Russia heads to the polls; 20 dead in Odesa after Russian missile attack 
This was CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine. 
Russians head to the polls on Friday in a presidential election that is all but certain to grant President Vladimir Putin a fifth term in power. 
Voting will take place over three days, though there is no credible opponent to the incumbent leader. 
Ukraine's Foreign Ministry on Thursday said that Russian attempts to hold elections in occupied territories or to force regional residents to head to the polls would be "illegal" — a sentiment echoed by NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg in a separate briefing, Reuters reported. 
Meanwhile, skirmishes continued Thursday in the Russian border regions of Belgorod and Kursk as three Ukraine-based Russian paramilitary groups — the Freedom of Russia Legion and the Siberia and RDK battalions — seek to break into Russian territory. 
A member of a local election commission, accompanied by a serviceman, visits voters during early voting in Russia's presidential election in Donetsk, Russian-controlled Ukraine, amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict on March 14, 2024. 
Stringer | Afp | Getty Images 
The Russian Defense Ministry said on the Telegram messaging app that it repelled another attempted incursion in Belgorod on Thursday, but the Freedom of Russia Legion said the assaults would continue until the region is "completely liberated from the troops of the Putin regime." 
The death toll is mounting in the southern Ukrainian of Odesa after a Russian missile attack struck a residential area in the early hours of Friday morning, according to regional officials. 
Ukraine also shot down 27 Iranian-made drones over seven regions across the country in the early hours of Friday morning, including around the capital, Kyiv's air force claimed. 
Elsewhere, French President Emmanuel Macron said in a televised interview aired Thursday evening that Russia cannot be allowed to win the war, and doubled down on his refusal to rule out sending troops from NATO countries to Ukraine. 
"If Russia were to win, the lives of French people would change. We would no longer have security in Europe. Who can seriously believe that Putin, who has respected no limits, would stop there?" Macron said. 
Fri, Mar 15 202412:39 PM EDT 
Putin votes in Russian election, says Ukraine trying to sabotage voting 
Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday voted in the Russian election, which he is almost certainly going to win. According to Russian state media, the Kremlin said that Putin voted online. 
In this pool photograph distributed by Russia's state agency Sputnik, Russian President Vladimir Putin chairs a Security Council meeting via a video link at the Novo-Ogaryovo state residence, outside Moscow, on March 15, 2024. 
Mikhail Metzel | Afp | Getty Images 
Earlier in the day, Putin told members of the Russian Security Council that Ukraine was trying to sabotage the election and had carried out attacks in the Russian border region in an attempt to disrupt the elections, state media reported. 
This would not go unpunished, Putin said, adding that Russia would respond to the attacks with stronger unity. 
Meanwhile, Reuters said disruptions such as dye being poured into ballot boxes, a molotov cocktail being thrown in Putin's hometown and reports of cyberattacks had taken place on the first day of the three-day election. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Fri, Mar 15 202411:53 AM EDT 
G7 warns Iran not to support Russia with ballistic missiles 
G7 leaders on Friday urged Iran not to send ballistic missiles to Russia. 
"We are extremely concerned about reports that Iran is considering transferring ballistic missiles and related technology to Russia after having supplied the Russian regime with UAVs, which are used in relentless attacks against the civilian population in Ukraine," the statement said. 
Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi greets Russian President Vladimir Putin on July 19, 2022. 
Sergei Savostyanov | AFP | Getty Images 
The G7 called on Iran not to deliver missiles, and said there would be consequences if they did. 
"Were Iran to proceed with providing ballistic missiles or related technology to Russia, we are prepared to respond swiftly and in a coordinated manner including with new and significant measures against Iran," the statement said. 
A senior official in the U.S. administration said the country had not yet seen confirmation that missiles have moved from Iran to Russia, but noted that negotiations between the countries have been advancing. 
The official reiterated that measures would be taken against Iran if it supplied Russia with missiles, including a potential ban of flights by state-owned Iran Air into Europe. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Fri, Mar 15 202411:42 AM EDT 
Odesa death toll rises to 16, with over 70 injured 
The toll of deaths and injuries following Russia's attack of Ukrainian city Odesa is continuing to rise. Latest figures, shared by the Ukrainian Interior Minister Ihor Klymenko on Telegram, suggest 16 people were killed and 73 injured. 
This includes members of the Ukrainian State Emergency Service and police. 
"Rescuers arrived to help the victims when the Russians struck again," Klymenko wrote on Telegram according to a Google translation. 
CNBC could not independently verify the reports. 
A Ukrainian rescuer works at the site of a missile attack in Odesa on March 15, 2024, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 
Oleksandr Gimanov | Afp | Getty Images 
This photograph taken on March 15, 2024, shows a destroyed car in front of damaged houses following a missile attack in Odesa, amid the Russian invasion of Ukraine. 
Oleksandr Gimanov | Afp | Getty Images 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Fri, Mar 15 202410:18 AM EDT 
Russian-installed Kherson officials accuse Ukraine of polling station shelling: TASS 
Ukraine on Friday shelled a polling station in Russian-controlled Kherson, Russian state news agency TASS reported citing Moscow-installed election officials in the Ukrainian region. 
Russia is conducting polls for its presidential election, in which Vladimir Putin is certain to secure another six years in power, in occupied Ukrainian territories despite international condemnation. 
Ukraine's Foreign Ministry on Thursday said that Russian attempts to hold elections in occupied territories or to force regional residents to head to the polls would be "illegal" — a sentiment echoed by NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg in a separate briefing, Reuters reported. 
CNBC was not able to independently verify the reports. 
- Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20249:16 AM EDT 
UN accuses Russia of systematic torture of Ukraine POWs 
A new report from a U.N. commission of inquiry on Ukraine, published Friday, said it had found further evidence of systemic torture of Ukrainian prisoners of war by Russian forces. 
"The Commission has found new evidence that Russian authorities have committed violations of international human rights and international humanitarian law, and corresponding war crimes, in areas that came under their control in Ukraine," the summary stated. 
The three-member panel said Russia had shown a "disregard for basic principles of humanitarian laws and of human rights obligations," and said the evidence confirmed the necessity of further investigation to establish whether Moscow is guilty of "crimes against humanity." 
It highlighted new evidence of "widespread and systemic" torture used by Russian authorities against Ukrainian prisoners of war in several detention facilities across the country. 
"The report documents incidents of rape and other sexual violence committed against women in circumstances which also amount to torture. It also details incidents of torture with a sexualised dimension and threats of rape against male prisoners of war," the commission stated. 
The commission's report has been submitted to the 47-member UN Human Rights Council in Geneva, which will determine whether the commission's mandate should be renewed for another year to continue its investigative work. 
Russia has denied torture and other forms of mistreatment of POWs. 
- Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20248:22 AM EDT 
Odesa missile strike: 14 dead, 46 injured 
The death toll in the southern Ukrainian city of Odesa has now risen to 14 while a further 46 have been injured, according to the region's governor. 
Oleh Kiper, head of the Odesa regional state administration, said on Telegram that the dead included local residents, a medic and a rescue worker while the injured included seven employees of the State Emergency Service, and that "all necessary assistance" is being provided. 
"Mourning will be announced tomorrow in Odesa and the region. I express my sincere condolences to the families of the victims," Kiper added. 
- Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20248:02 AM EDT 
Odesa death toll rises to 8, prosecutors say 
The Ukrainian prosecutor's office says the death toll from the Russian missile attack on Odesa has risen to eight, with more than 20 injured. 
The dead include an employee of the State Emergency Service and a paramedic, the Office of the Prosecutor General said on Telegram late Friday morning. 
"Under the procedural guidance of the Odesa Regional Prosecutor's Office, a pre-trial investigation was started in criminal proceedings on the fact of violation of the laws and customs of war, combined with intentional murder," prosecutors added. 
- Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20246:59 AM EDT 
Russian missile attack kills two in Odesa, regional governor says 
Two people were killed by a Russian missile attack on the southern Ukrainian city of Odesa on Friday, the regional governor announced on Telegram. 
"Unfortunately, as a result of the Russian missile attack, a paramedic and an employee of the State Emergency Service, who came to render aid at the scene after the first explosion, were killed," said Oleh Kiper, head of the Odesa regional administration. 
"Among the medics and rescuers there are also seriously wounded. The total number of victims is being determined, all are being provided with the necessary medical assistance." 
— Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20246:52 AM EDT 
Kremlin accuses U.S. of covert influence campaign against Russian authorities 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov attends official welcoming ceremony for Russian President Vladimir Putin in Astana, Kazakhstan November 9, 2023. 
Pavel Bednyakov | Via Reuters 
Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov on Friday alleged that the U.S. has been trying to conduct a covert influence campaign against Moscow, according to Reuters. 
Peskov reportedly told journalists that Russian security services had taken action to minimize the effectiveness of clandestine social media campaigns, while suggesting similar operations may also be occurring in other countries. 
His comments come after Russia's foreign intelligence on Monday accused the U.S. of election interference ahead of the country's presidential election this weekend, in which President Vladimir Putin is effectively running unopposed. 
— Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20245:47 AM EDT 
Russian spy boss calls Macron comments on sending NATO troops to Ukraine 'crazy and paranoid' 
Russian State Duma Speaker Sergei Naryshkin attends National Historical Assembly's meeting at the Kremlin in Moscow, Russia, June, 22, 2016. Russians mark 75-th anniversary of German Nazi's invastion in Soviet Union and commemorate victims of WWII today. 
Mikhail Svetlov | Getty Images News | Getty Images 
Sergei Naryshkin, the head of Russia's foreign intelligence service, on Friday called French President Emmanuel Macron's recent comments about the potential for Western troops to enter Ukraine "crazy and paranoid dreams," Reuters reported, citing Russia's RIA news agency. 
In a televised interview on Thursday, Macron doubled down on his refusal to rule out sending troops from NATO countries to Ukraine, presenting a Russian victory as an existential threat to the rest of Europe. 
— Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20244:45 AM EDT 
Ukraine shoots down 27 Iranian-made drones, air force says 
Ukraine shot down 27 Iranian-made drones over seven regions across the country in the early hours of Friday morning, including around the capital, the country's air force claimed. 
Two people were killed in a residential building in the central city of Vinnytsia, the regional governor said on Telegram. 
CNBC was not able to independently verify the claims. 
— Elliot Smith 
Fri, Mar 15 20244:45 AM EDT 
Pro-Ukraine paramilitary groups vow to continue assault on Russian border regions 
A view shows the damaged Belgorod city hall hit by a drone attack in Belgorod on March 12, 2024. 
Stringer | Afp | Getty Images 
Skirmishes continued Thursday in the Russian border regions of Belgorod and Kursk as three Ukraine-based Russian paramilitary groups — the Freedom of Russia Legion and the Siberia and RDK battalions — seek to break into Russian territory. 
The Russian Ministry of Defense said on Telegram that it repelled another attempted incursion into the Belgorod region on Thursday, this time around the border settlement of Kozinka. 
Meanwhile, the Freedom of Russia Legion claimed that an attempt to evacuate civilians from the embattled border regions via a humanitarian corridor had allowed more than 7,000 civilian vehicles of residents from the Belgorod region and more than 600 from the Kursk regions to escape, as of Friday morning. 
"After the expiration of the humanitarian corridor, the destruction of military facilities in the Belgorod and Kursk regions will continue until the region is completely liberated from the troops of the Putin regime," the group said on Telegram. 
— Elliot Smith 
Thu, Mar 14 202411:10 AM EDT 
Russia thought to have interfered with signal of U.K. defense minister's plane, sources say 
Russia is thought to have interfered with the satellite signal of an airplane carrying U.K. Defense Minister Grant Shapps on Thursday, Reuters reported citing multiple sources. 
The aircraft reportedly could not access GPS and had to use alternative methods to assess its location, and mobile phones were unable to connect to the internet when the plane was flying near Russian city Kaliningrad on the Baltic Sea. The outage lasted for about thirty minutes, sources said. 
Shapps was traveling back to the U.K. from Poland at the time. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 202412:23 PM EDT 
Allies warning Hungary of increasingly close relationship with Russia, U.S. ambassador says 
Russian President Vladimir Putin meeting Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban at the third Belt and Road forum in Beijing. 
Grigory Sysoyev | Afp | Getty Images 
Hungary's allies are cautioning the country about its relationship with Russia, David Pressman, the U.S. ambassador to Hungary said Thursday. 
"Hungary's allies are warning Hungary of the dangers of its close and expanding relationship with Russia," he said in a speech marking the 25th anniversary of Hungary's accession to NATO. 
As Hungary's foreign minister and prime minister are continuing to engage with Russia, it appears fostering a close relationship with the country is part of Hungary's policy, Pressman said. If this is true, the allies would need to decide how to protect their security interests, he noted. 
Pressman also criticized Hungary's position on the war in Ukraine. 
"Hungary could stand with Ukraine, alongside all of its NATO Allies, to demand real peace, true peace, which can only be based in freedom rather than standing beside Russia and calling for surrender and subjugation," he said. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 20248:09 AM EDT 
Ukraine, NATO chief say holding Russian elections on occupied territory would be "illegal" 
Ukrainian Minister for Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba (L) and Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg (R) give a press conference following their meeting at Nato Headquarters in Brussels, on November 29, 2023, on the sidelines of a Nato Foreign ministers meeting. 
Simon Wohlfahrt | Afp | Getty Images 
Ukraine's foreign ministry on Thursday said it would be illegal for Russia to hold elections in occupied territories of Ukraine, and that the votes would not have any legal consequences. 
"Forcing millions of Ukrainian citizens who live in temporarily occupied territories or who have been forcibly transferred to Russian Federation territory to participate in the so-called "elections" is equally illegal," a ministry statement said. 
Russia's attempt to hold elections in occupied regions showed the country's "flagrant disregard" for international laws and conventions, the foreign ministry added. 
People visit a mobile polling station during the early voting in Russia’s presidential election, in the course of Russia-Ukraine conflict in Donetsk, Russian-controlled Ukraine, March 10, 2024. 
Alexander Ermochenko | Reuters 
"We urge Ukrainian citizens who live in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine or are forced to stay in the territory of the Russian Federation not to participate in the 'pseudo-elections' of the Russian President," it said. 
Separately, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters that any efforts to organize elections in Ukraine's occupied regions would be illegal, Reuters reported. 


Russian Invasion of UkraineWhat Happened on Day 86 of the War in Ukraine 
Russia moved to expand military recruitment to older citizens and said that it was suspending gas shipments to Finland. 
BERLIN — Russia took new steps on Friday to gird for an escalating struggle with the West over the war in Ukraine, moving to expand military recruitment to older citizens and severing gas supplies to Finland in apparent retaliation for its Nordic neighbor’s application to join the NATO alliance. 
The two developments reflected the mounting pressure on Russia because of its three-month-old invasion of Ukraine, which has evolved into something of a stalemate that has seriously depleted the Kremlin’s conventional war capabilities, even as Russia has made some incremental gains. 
The conflict also has left Russia increasingly vulnerable economically and energized Western opposition in ways that President Vladimir V. Putin had sought to prevent. Both Finland, which border Russia, and Sweden, which shares a sea border, broke with their longstanding policies of neutrality and applied to join NATO over the past week, a vote of confidence in the unity of an alliance that has been cemented by the conflict. 
Russia said Friday that it was suspending gas shipments to Finland because the Finnish gas company had failed to make payments in rubles. But the Kremlin has used Russia’s energy supply as a political weapon in the past, and previously threatened “retaliation” against Sweden and Finland should they move to join NATO. Last weekend, Moscow suspended electricity exports to Finland after the country’s intention to join the alliance had become clear. 
The Finnish company, Gasum, called the latest move from the Russian gas giant Gazprom “highly regrettable,” but said that it did not expect disruptions. 
“It is very unfortunate that the supply of natural gas under our supply contract will now run out,” the chief executive of Gasum, Mika Wiljanen, said in a statement. “However, we have prepared carefully for this situation and if there are no disruptions in the gas transmission network, we will be able to supply gas to all our customers in the coming months.” 
Gas exports are vital to Russia’s economy. They also give Moscow a potent diplomatic tool: Last month, Russia halted natural gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria, two NATO countries that are dependent on Russian gas but have strongly opposed the war in Ukraine. Poland and Bulgaria also had balked at making payments in rubles. 
Russia’s reaction underscored the geopolitical fallout from the war in Ukraine as it spurs what could become one of the most radical redrawings of Europe’s security order in decades. 
Moscow is increasingly mired in difficulties on the ground in Ukraine, the former Soviet republic that Mr. Putin does not consider a legitimate country. His plan for a quick subjugation of Ukraine after the Feb. 24 invasion has been upended by a series of bruising battles that have forced him to reduce his territorial ambitions and have left Russia’s forces exhausted and its equipment diminished. 
Under pressure to score victories and to shore up its forces for an intensifying battle in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, Moscow on Friday moved to expand the pool of potential recruits to its military by eliminating the age limit for service. 
An amendment introduced by senior lawmakers in Russia’s Parliament would allow Russians older than 40 to sign first-time military service contracts. Under the current law, Russian citizens must be aged 18 to 40 to sign a first-time contract. 
The law would bring in more service members with specialties, such as medical workers and engineers, a statement from the lower house of Parliament said. 
“Highly professional specialists are needed” to operate military equipment, the statement said. 
It made no mention of a manpower shortage in the field. But experts say that Russia suffers that shortage and is under strain, particularly after a series of humiliating setbacks in trying to capture Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, and more recently in failing to seize the country’s second-largest city, Kharkiv. 
Mr. Putin has resisted ordering a large-scale military draft, apparently fearing domestic backlash, and is instead stepping up recruitment. 
The lack of reserve troops is forcing Russian commanders to consolidate depleted battalion tactical groups, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington-based research group that has been monitoring the conflict. 
The institute quoted an unidentified U.S. defense official as saying that Russian forces have had to disband and combine some battalion tactical groups in Ukraine to compensate for casualties and other losses. 
At the same time, the institute said that some Russian troops who had been withdrawn from around Kharkiv, in the northeast of the country, have been redeployed toward the Donetsk region in Donbas. 
Even as Russia’s war aims have narrowed, it was fortifying control over parts of Ukraine this week. 
After the near-total conquest of the southeast port city of Mariupol, Russian officials appeared to be laying the groundwork for annexing swaths of southeast Ukraine. They have already made changes in some areas, introducing the ruble currency, installing proxy politicians and cutting the population off from Ukrainian broadcasts. 
Units that fought in Mariupol can now be sent elsewhere following the surrender of Ukrainian fighters defending a large steel plant. A Russia Defense Ministry spokesman, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, said Friday its forces had full control of the plant, which has been “completely liberated.” 
The focus has shifted to the eastern battlefield. In the Donbas region, which Russia has vowed to capture after having abandoned more ambitious goals of toppling the central government, Russian troops carried out 13 attacks on Ukrainian positions, the Ukrainian military said. 
A weekslong fight around the city of Sievierodonetsk, in the Luhansk region, has intensified in the past day, with Russian forces on Friday firing artillery at a school where more than 200 people were sheltering, killing three of them, a regional military official said. 
Russian artillery fire into the city and nearby areas killed 12 civilians and damaged more than 60 buildings over the past day, said the governor of Luhansk Province. The Ukrainian military said in its regularly published morning assessment of the war on Friday that its forces had repelled a Russian attempt to storm defensive positions near Sievierodonetsk. 
To help keep the Ukrainian war effort running, the Group of 7 economic powers on Friday agreed to provide nearly $20 billion in grants and loans to support Ukraine’s economy over the coming months. 
Ukraine needs approximately $5 billion per month to maintain basic government services, according to the International Monetary Fund. The G-7 financing was agreed on after the United States, which is contributing more than $9 billion in short-term financing, pressed allies to do more to help secure Ukraine’s future. 
While Ukraine’s government has expressed gratitude for Western economic and military aid, it has been critical of NATO over what Ukrainian officials have called the alliance’s lack of support since the Russian invasion. 
“Could you name at least one consensus decision made by NATO over the past three months that would benefit and help Ukraine?” Dmytro Kuleba, the foreign minister, said on Thursday night during a nationwide telethon to raise funds for the country. 
Under NATO’s treaty, an attack on one of its 30 members is an attack on all — a provision that has amplified the risk of an escalation with Russia, including the possibility, however remote, of a nuclear war. 
While NATO officials have expressed strong support for Ukraine, they have balked at taking any steps that could provoke a Russian attack on any alliance member — rejecting, for example, the Ukrainian government’s repeated pleas to create a no-fly zone over Ukraine. 
Individually, many NATO countries have provided Kyiv with weaponry and missiles — aid that Mr. Kuleba acknowledged. 
“Yes, it is true that the alliance members, individually or in small groups, are really doing awesome and important work, providing vital assistance,” Mr. Kuleba said. “But NATO as an institution has done nothing during this time.” 
The latest tests for NATO unity are the accession bids by Finland and Sweden, which still face opposition from President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey, who has complained of what he calls their tolerance toward Kurdish militant separatist groups that are considered terrorist organizations in his country. 
The Biden administration, which has strongly endorsed the applications of Finland and Sweden, has repeatedly expressed confidence that Turkey’s objections will be resolved. 
Katrin Bennhold reported from Berlin, Matthew Mpoke Bigg from Krakow, Poland, and Andrew E. Kramer from Kyiv, Ukraine. Reporting was contributed by Alan Rappeport from Königswinter, Germany; Safak Timur from Istanbul; Erika Solomon from Lviv, Ukraine; and James C. McKinley Jr. and Rick Gladstone from New York. 
May 20, 2022, 11:23 p.m. ET 
May 20, 2022, 11:23 p.m. ET 
Zolan Kanno-Youngs 
The White House has directed an aide to bring a physical copy of legislation authorizing emergency assistance for Ukraine to South Korea so that it can be signed by President Biden during his five-day diplomatic trip to the region, an administration official said. The aide planned to take a commercial flight, the official said. The $40 billion package of military and humanitarian aid was passed by Congress this week. 
The Kremlin has long orchestrated Russia’s court system as an instrument for oppression and propaganda, using a veneer of legality to silence critics and to impose its version of events. 
Last December, for example, Russia’s Supreme Court liquidated the country’s most prominent human rights group, Memorial, ruling that its work chronicling Stalin-era brutality had distorted the Soviet Union’s historical image. 
In 2020, Paul Whelan, a former U.S. Marine, received a 16-year sentence on espionage charges in a case widely seen as Russia grabbing a hostage. “Sham Trial!” Mr. Whelan, who remains incarcerated, wrote on a piece of paper that he held up in court. 
The common thread in all these cases, analysts and opposition figures say, is that the verdict was stage-managed to deliver to President Vladimir V. Putin a coveted goal, like diminishing an opponent or buttressing a propaganda point. 
Now, with nearly 2,000 Ukrainian soldiers from the besieged steel plant in Mariupol in Russian custody, the prospect of so-called show trials has emerged again. 
The fighters have been leaving the plant this week after maintaining the last line of defense in Mariupol, at a Soviet-era steel facility. The Ukrainian government said it had negotiated a deal for the fighters’ exchange, but Moscow has not confirmed this. 
At the same time, some Russian officials have pushed to label one group of the soldiers — members of the Azov battalion — as terrorists, and to try them on war crimes charges. The Russian position has raised the prospect that it is laying the groundwork for high-profile trials of the fighters that would advance its narrative of the war. 
“Every single case which Putin or his allies would like to manipulate will be manipulated,” said Ilya Novikov, a former Moscow lawyer who relocated to Kyiv three years ago. “You should not start by asking what are the charges, you should start by asking what is the outcome.” 
In March and April, the photojournalist Paolo Pellegrin made a 4,000-mile journey through war-torn Ukraine with the writer James Verini for an article about Kharkiv, the city on the country’s eastern flank that has been devastated by Russian shelling. The stops along the way were grim. A shopping mall in a suburb of Kyiv, destroyed. A mother comforting a daughter with a bullet wound in a hospital. Mass graves in the town Bucha. 
Less than a year ago, Pellegrin and Verini had traveled to Ukraine to tell the story of the long-running conflict in the country’s eastern separatist regions. But Russia’s invasion in February scrambled the map. There was a crisis now on the Polish border, where Pellegrin documented scenes of the chaotic crossing station in Medyka as thousands of families fled. From there, he took a circuitous route through the country’s highways, now threaded with checkpoints, passing through Lviv, Zaporizhzhia, Mykolaiv, Odesa, Kyiv and Kharkiv. 
In Kharkiv, the men found a ghost town, where monuments and churches kept watch over empty streets. “Those who had stayed behind were either in basements and subway stations,” Pellegrin said, “or in areas that they thought were less affected, even though everything was affected.” 
Russia’s strategy of targeting civilians was something Pellegrin had not witnessed on that scale in past conflicts he covered in places like Iraq, Afghanistan and Lebanon. “Lines are often blurred in conflict areas — in Ukraine it felt even more so. There was this sense here that everything could have been hit,” he said. “It was indiscriminate.” 
May 20, 2022, 7:07 p.m. ET 
May 20, 2022, 7:07 p.m. ET 
Lauren McCarthy 
Prime Minister Boris Johnson of Britain and President Recep Tayyip Erdogan of Turkey agreed in a phone call on Friday evening to seek to unlock vital supply routes for Ukrainian grain stocks, as food prices rise across the globe. Turkey objects to Finland's and Sweden’s NATO bids, but, according to a British government statement, Johnson encouraged Erdogan to work with those countries and NATO to address concerns ahead of a summit in Madrid next month. 
The Russian Defense Ministry said Friday that its forces had seized full control of the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, where Ukrainian forces’ monthslong holdout became a symbol of Ukraine’s resistance to the invasion. 
The statement, which would signal the end of the most protracted and bloody siege of the war, could not be immediately verified. Senior Ukrainian officials reached late Friday said they were not able to confirm the Russian claim. 
Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov of Russia’s Defense Ministry said that the plant had been “completely liberated.” He also said that the commander of the Azov regiment, a Ukrainian unit with roots as a far-right militia, had been captured and taken away from the plant in an armored car. 
Moscow has used the Azov regiment’s presence among the military units defending Mariupol to give a veneer of truth to President Vladimir V. Putin’s false claim that he invaded Ukraine to root out “Nazi” groups. 
Earlier on Friday, the Azov commander, Denis Prokopenko, issued a video statement noting that the Ukrainian military’s command had ordered them to surrender and urging proper burials for the fighters who had died at the plant. That order was given on Tuesday. 
General Konashenkov said that 2,439 Ukrainian soldiers, including members of the Azov regiment and other military units, had laid down their arms and surrendered. The last 500 or so surrendered on Friday, he said. 
Full Russian control of the steel complex would mean the end of one of the bloodiest and protracted battles of the war. Mariupol’s defenders fought for months while Russian bombardments reduced the seaside port city to rubble, killing thousands of civilians, according to local authorities. 
Slowly, Ukraine’s forces were forced back, until they controlled only the sprawling steel complex and the bunkers beneath it. Negotiations brokered by the International Committee for the Red Cross and the United Nations led recently to the release of hundreds of civilians who were trapped there with the fighters. 
The fighters held out, despite having no hope of reinforcement or rescue. They vowed to make a last stand, and officials in Kyiv said their resistance had derailed Russia’s war plans. One presidential adviser compared them to the Spartan defenders of the ancient world who gave their lives to hold back the Persians at Thermopylae. 
Then on Tuesday, Ukraine’s commanders ordered the fighters to lay down their arms, saying there had been secret negotiations with Russia aimed at saving them. Ukraine said they expected Azovstal’s defenders to be exchanged for Russian prisoners of war, but after hundreds had surrendered, the authorities in Moscow said they would investigate some for war crimes, raising questions about their fate. 
The Kremlin’s media outlets have been citing the Azov regiment’s links with far-right movements as proof of President Vladimir V. Putin’s false claim that Ukraine is ruled by a Nazi government. Mr. Putin used the claim as one of his prime justifications for the decision to invade Ukraine. 
The Russian Supreme Court has said it will hold a hearing next week on whether to declare the Azov regiment a terrorist organization. 
Yulia Mudrytska, 28, used a wheelbarrow to dispose of rubble from her grandmother’s damaged home in the village of Novoselivka, Ukraine, on Friday. Other residents wait for humanitarian aid to the village. Many of the approximately 900 people who lived there before the Russian invasion fled, and only a few have returned. A local doctor estimated that 80 percent of the village's residences were damaged or destroyed. 
The Samara Metallurgical Plant, a sprawling complex in southwestern Russia that spans an area the size of a dozen city blocks, is a cornerstone of Russian industry. It is the country’s largest supplier of aluminum commercial and industrial products. 
It is also a source of critical parts for the Russian warplanes and missiles that are now tearing through Ukraine. And atop its edifice, spelled out in giant blue letters, is the name of its American owner: Arconic, a Pittsburgh-based, Fortune 500 company that is one of America’s largest metalworking firms even after splitting out from the industrial giant Alcoa in 2016. 
Arconic does not make weapons. But its sophisticated forges are among a handful of machines in Russia that can form lightweight metals into large aerospace parts like bulkheads and wing mounts. 
Under an agreement with the Russian government, the company has from the start of its operations at Samara, in 2004, been legally required to supply the country’s defense industry as a condition of operating a plant whose mostly nonmilitary output has proved tremendously lucrative. 
Even as Russia turned its military toward ever more aggressive ends around the world and the relationship between the United States and the Kremlin soured, Arconic maintained the Samara operation, despite the growing legal and political complications of operating there. 
Now, however, with Russia’s invasion of Ukraine polarizing the world, Arconic’s leadership has found that its business at Samara is, finally, unsustainable. 
Though there is no indication that Arconic is in breach of American or other Western sanctions, those penalties have made it difficult to keep the plant supplied and operating. But shutting down production could expose its employees there to jail time under Russian laws on maintaining strategic production. And Russia has already cut off Arconic’s access to profits from the Samara plant. 
“The conflict in Ukraine has made our continued presence in Russia untenable, which led to our decision to pursue a sale,” Timothy Myers, Arconic’s chief executive, said in a written statement on Friday. 
Company documents acquired by The New York Times, along with financial filings and other public materials, reveal Arconic’s struggles to keep the plant running. The documents were provided by a whistleblower employee who objected to Arconic’s continued involvement in Russia even after the invasion of Ukraine. 
On Wednesday, the day after The Times approached Arconic with details of its work in Russia, its board approved a plan that, according to internal documents, had been under internal consideration for weeks: to sell the plant outright. The company announced this decision on Thursday. 
But any sale remains hypothetical, as the company does not yet have a buyer. And finding one would require regulatory approval at the highest levels from both the United States and Russia. 
That is perhaps fitting, as those governments had cooperated to pave the way for Arconic’s ownership of Samara in the first place. 
Now, the long-coming divorce, accelerated by the war in Ukraine, is proving costly, with European energy consumers and companies like Arconic caught between now-hostile powers. 
The Arrangement 
“The era in which the United States and Russia saw each other as an enemy or strategic threat has ended,” Presidents George W. Bush and Vladimir V. Putin announced at a 2002 summit meeting in Moscow. Now, they said, “We are partners,” praising each other as like-minded allies in the war on terrorism. 
Mr. Bush encouraged American companies to buy up Russian industries that had fallen into disrepair. Economic integration, it was widely thought, would bind Russia and the West for good. 
American corporations snapped up whole factory compounds, once the engines of Soviet power. Moscow welcomed this, believing American financing and know-how might reconstitute Russian industrial might. 
The American industrial giant Alcoa joined the gold rush in 2004, buying two complexes in Russia, including the one at Samara. It purchased both factories for $257 million but spent twice that rebuilding Samara, which it found running at one-third capacity. 
Within the facility was a nine-story metal behemoth: a huge forge press that had been built right into the foundation, able to form the parts that make up the largest airplanes and missiles. It is one of only a handful like it in the world, including just two in Russia. 
“These machines are essential to the defense industry,” Martino Barbon, a representative of the manufacturing firm Gasparini Industries, said, calling them “the backbone” of production. 
In an interview, Mr. Myers said that Samara’s giant press had seen little use in recent years. Still, its presence, along with a number of smaller forges, underscores that Samara, like many Soviet-era facilities, had been designed to combine commercial and military work. 
When it bought the Samara plant, Alcoa — which split part of its operations, including those in Russia, into the name Arconic in 2016 — did not explicitly seek to become a Russian military supplier. Rather, this was Moscow’s condition for the sale. 
That condition remains in force, according to company documents that describe a legal obligation to “manufacture aerospace and defense products” for sale to Russia’s weapons industry. 
Mr. Myers — who is now the chief executive and had been among the first employees to visit Samara in the early 2000s — said that the U.S. government knew about Moscow’s terms when it approved Alcoa’s purchase. The company’s Russian subsidiary sells most products through other distributors and therefore Arconic cannot control how those products are used, he said. 
But company documents show that Arconic has known throughout that the Samara operation was supplying Russia’s military, even if it was only a small part of the company’s overall business. 
Moscow required the company to sign an agreement, as a condition of purchase, that it would pledge to indefinitely supply programs that it deemed essential. Mr. Myers acknowledged these terms in an interview with a Russian news outlet just last year. 
“The main condition of the deal,” Mr. Myers said, “was the obligation to ensure uninterrupted supplies” for “state defense and aerospace programs.” 
The agreement included a supplemental document, a copy of which The Times acquired, detailing mandatory production contracts. 
The file lists more than a half-dozen of Russia’s largest weapons-makers, such as N.P.O. Novator and Komsomolsk-on-Amur Aviation Plant. Altogether, the companies provide the bulk of Russia’s cruise missiles, ICBMs, attack helicopters, strategic bombers and other hardware. 
The file applied to both plants, the second of which Alcoa later sold. But it underscores Russia’s insistence on steady military supplies — and the American company’s willingness to comply. 
For Moscow, the greatest benefit may have been modernization: Western financing and know-how brought the plant from derelict to state-of-the-art. 
For Alcoa/Arconic, this was the cost of admission to Russia. In financial terms, it paid off handsomely. 
Last year alone, Samara brought in nearly $1 billion, accounting for 16 percent of Arconic’s third-party sales worldwide, according to financial filings. 
The Breakdown 
Before long, a string of Russian military interventions, chiefly its annexation of Crimea in 2014 and its entry to the Syrian war the next year, transformed Western views of Russia. 
Arconic found itself supplying, however indirectly, a Russian military that was now seen as a global threat. 
Still, the company remained in Russia. 
Moscow was no longer so welcoming. It codified sweeping “antimonopoly” laws allowing it to restrict or expel foreign companies involved in sensitive industries. 
American companies became especially likely to face official investigation. This often came with supposedly temporary injunctions that make doing business difficult. 
Richard Aboulafia, an aerospace industry consultant, said that Russia has since effectively seized control of many foreign-owned plants through what he termed “oligarchization.” 
Rather than outright nationalize those businesses, Moscow coerces them into selling themselves off to Kremlin-linked firms, sometimes for pennies on the dollar. Just this week, the French automaker Renault sold a factory in the country to a Russian government-linked firm for one ruble. 
In 2020, Arconic was hit with one such investigation. Russian officials barred Arconic from disbursing its profits from Samara or even restaffing leadership at the Russian subsidiary that runs the plant. 
Richard Connolly, a University of Birmingham economist who advises companies on doing business in Russia, called it “very surprising” that Arconic, unlike many other American companies, had not yet been forced out of Russia. 
From the Kremlin’s point of view, coercing Samara’s owners to sell the plant, as it has with several other American-owned business over the years, does carry some risk. It could disrupt production at a time when Russia already faces battlefield setbacks. But tolerating Arconic would mean leaving critical infrastructure in the hands of an American corporation. 
Dr. Connolly suggested that Russian leaders may still see American knowledge and technology as too critical to lose at Samara, especially as battlefield losses wipe out advanced weapons that, because of sanctions, Russia may struggle to replace. 
“They realize they might not be able to produce everything themselves,” he said. 
The Unwinding 
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, in February, forced difficult conversations within Arconic, according to internal documents and the account of a whistleblower employee who asked not to be named because the employee did not have the company’s permission to speak. 
At the end of 2021, amid Mr. Putin’s buildup to war with Ukraine, Samara’s forging division had its best quarter on record, reporting an 82 percent increase in production from the prior year. An internal presentation touting the rise listed it under the heading “Aerospace.” 
That constituted roughly one percent of the plant’s overall output, making it something of a financial afterthought compared with the rest of the company’s business. 
Still, with Russian warplanes and missiles employed in shocking attacks in Ukraine considered to constitute possible war crimes, ethical considerations weighed heavily, according to the employee. 
By March, even as sales poured in, Arconic’s leadership was exploring ways to leave Russia entirely, according to internal memos. 
But any purchase would require the approval of the Russian government, as well as VSMPO-Avisma, the Kremlin-linked firm with which Arconic had formed a joint partnership. 
Selling would also require a license from the Treasury Department to avoid violating sanctions. 
Even as Arconic sought an exit, internal documents show that the company went to some lengths to keep Samara running. 
As early as March, with shipping companies ceasing operations in Russia, the company began seeking new ways to supply the plant with production materials. 
A few weeks later, the company concluded that, because of new sanctions, U.S.- and Europe-based employees could no longer work on efforts to supply the plant with materials, even from abroad. 
The company shifted this work to its division in China, where employees were thought to be unconstrained by Western sanctions. 
By early May, an internal presentation reported, Samara was hitting “numerous production volume records.” And sales were up: $233 million in the first quarter of 2022, from $195 million the year before. This likely reflected the commercial work that makes up most of Samara’s output, rather than military projects, but it underscored Arconic’s success in keeping the plant spinning at full speed. 
Still, the company concluded around the same time, according to Mr. Myers, its chief executive, that the war would continue for a long stretch, and with it both the sanctions and Russian government restrictions constraining Arconic’s ability to operate. Mr. Myers said that moral considerations also factored into Arconic’s decision to seek to leave Russia. 
That the partnership between Arconic and Russia ever seemed workable underscores how far the world has moved on from the notion that first brought them together: that economic integration would end a century of Russian-Western enmity and finally secure lasting peace. 
Mr. Connolly, the economist, compared Arconic’s stake in Russia to Europe’s decision to build its energy grids atop Russian gas pipelines and oil shipments, which was thought to make conflict unthinkable. 
Instead, European energy consumers are effectively funding Russia’s government even as they punish it with sanctions, much as Arconic appears caught up in Russian militarism that Washington had once hoped American investment might temper. 
“It’s a really graphic illustration,” Dr. Connolly said, “of the dashed hopes of that era.” 
When Russia invaded Ukraine in February, my social media feeds filled with denunciations of Russia’s president, Vladimir Putin, and listicles recommending how best to support Ukraine. This all made me feel a bit sheepish. Suddenly, Ukrainian cinema was relevant, and a familiar, woozy feeling returned: What use is any of this against the blunt reality of war? What might be achieved by engaging with Ukrainian art and film beyond the flaccid goal of raising awareness? 
At the time, I was on my way to the True/False Film Festival in Columbia, Mo., where “Mr. Landsbergis,” the Ukrainian filmmaker Sergei Loznitsa’s muscular four-hour documentary epic about the Lithuanian independence movement, was making its American premiere. Unless you were an art-house cinema enthusiast, or perhaps someone who was interested in Eastern Europe, Loznitsa’s films were considered obscure. This, despite the fact that he is a prolific and highly acclaimed director, and possibly the pre-eminent chronicler of post-Soviet history. 
In the months since, two of Loznitsa’s films, the fictional “Donbass” and the documentary “Babi Yar: Context,” have received commercial releases in the United States, and dozens of interviews with him have been published, including one with The Times. 
In the face of these newest features, however, my churlish initial reactions began to feel beside the point. To watch a Loznitsa film is anything but a passive activity. Consider his documentaries: They are often assembled from archival footage and avoid (or very sparingly employ) the use of obvious editorializing methods like voice-over, interviews and title cards. Instead of providing background information, Loznitsa relies on loaded images carefully selected and organized into montages, which is why his films can sometimes feel like being thrown into the deep end of history without a life vest. 
His works are also straightforward examples of the entwinement of real-world politics and film production processes. In “Babi Yar: Context,” Loznitsa repurposes World War II footage, much of it originally intended as Nazi and Soviet propaganda, to reveal the cycles of violence that unfolded in the Ukrainian city of Kyiv after the slaughter in 1941 of nearly 34,000 Jews by Nazis and their Ukrainian allies. 
Yet Loznitsa’s is a deeply cynical outlook, one that is most apparent in his narrative features, like “Donbass,” a grim satire about corruption and propaganda in the separatist regions of Donetsk and Luhansk. In the film, Loznitsa swings between farce and horror, weaving together local vignettes: an egregious demonstration by a Russian crony who parades medical staff members around an office to expose a doctor’s supposed theft of supplies (the materials are very obviously planted); a Ukrainian soldier taken hostage, and then practically tarred and feathered by sadistic civilians; the killings of a crew of pro-Russia propaganda actors, whose deaths are pinned on Ukrainian nationalists. But the incessant gallows humor, cruelty and chaos eventually feel like a surrender to total nihilism. 
The sweep and import of Loznitsa’s films make him a formidable spokesman for Ukrainian cinema, but I wonder if his cool, impersonal approach — concerned as it is with structures of power and the complex ramifications of historical events — might also promote a kind of distance. 
What does life in Ukraine feel like and how do everyday people carry on amid perpetual violence and escalating militarization? What does it mean to live in the cross hairs of Russian imperialism and Ukrainian nationalism? A number of recent and upcoming films by Ukrainian filmmakers, born of the continuing conflict, try to articulate these tensions, some more directly in conversation with the brutalities of war than others. 
Maksym Nakonechnyi’s “Butterfly Vision,” premiering at Cannes in the coming days, follows a Ukrainian reconnaissance expert struggling to adjust to normal life after being raped and detained as a prisoner of war. Natalya Vorozhbit’s (questionably bleak) omnibus film “Bad Roads” (streaming on Film Movement Plus) loosely connects four stories that take place around the Donbas, exploring the fraught relationships between vulnerable women and the soldiers stationed around the region. 
In Valentyn Vasyanovych’s austere drama “Reflection” (in select theaters), a Ukrainian surgeon, Serhiy, is captured by Russian soldiers and forced to help dispose of the bodies of Ukrainian soldiers who died while being tortured. The nightmarish first half — set in a sludge-gray, off-the-grid prison with a portable human incinerator — unfolds with unnerving levels of patience. We practically witness the trauma seeping into our hero’s bones. Then, in the second half, Serhiy is released in a prisoner swap, and everything about his life, including his chic, high-rise apartment and his relationship with his angsty young daughter, takes on a zombified state, enveloped in a dissociative haze even as he tries to repair himself. 
It’s true that art provides us with the opportunity to confront uncomfortable truths, and yet the most severe and somber examples are typically upheld as the most significant, the most hard-hitting, informative and worthy of our time. But the experience of living through war doesn’t start and stop with the raising of weapons or the exhibiting of its worst victims. Understandably, we are more easily roused by these extremes, but perhaps a different kind of sensibility is warranted, one that communicates not just the worst of life under war, but the breadth and peculiarity of everyday resilience. 
That’s why two films in particular stand out, and they’re not interested in making monumental statements about history and violence and terror, even though these realities undeniably lurk all around. 
First, there is Kateryna Gornostai’s tender teen romance, “Stop-Zemlia” (available on major digital platforms), set in Kyiv around 2019. It is a meandering film, much like the three fumbling youngsters at its center — self-described “weirdos” who grapple with their sexuality, pine for aloof crushes, smoke cigarettes, have sleepovers and text anonymous admirers. 
Like the others in their class, Masha, Senia and Yana are played by nonprofessional actors whom Gornostai allowed considerable leeway to improvise. At the same time, interviews in talking head style punctuate the drama and forge connections between the performers — actual Ukrainian teenagers — and their roles. Senia, whose family used to live in a violent part of the country, struggles with PTSD, and we see the kids, briefly, in helmets and wielding weapons as they participate in a combat training class. But these are simply threads in a larger web of experience. Though we’re able to predict what will come for many of these young adults in a few years, we can’t imagine them, given the richness of their inner lives, as only victims. 
And in Iryna Tsilyk’s metatextual documentary, “The Earth Is Blue as an Orange” (in select theaters), the war is right outside one family’s window, yet they not only endure, they live and create. Tsilyk follows a single mother and her children, the Trofymchuks-Gladkys, who live in an apartment in the tumultuous Donbas region. Constant shelling in the distance provides surreal background noise, though the gang is oddly blasé about their situation. There are certainly moments of grief and terror, but they are matched by pleasures and triumphs: the revelation of a full-ride scholarship for the eldest daughter, a joyous birthday celebration, the smaller kids always zipping around the room. 
The family members are also making a film about their lives, which means they are hyper-aware of certain cinematic tropes. “It should be tragic,” one child says as she tries to stifle her laughter before delivering an on-camera testimony. In the end, the family project is screened for a small local audience, the camera cutting to each captivated gaze. One wonders if and how the film resonates with these spectators — and what would they have to say for themselves? 
A spokesman for Russia's Defense Ministry says Moscow’s forces have taken full control of the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, where Ukrainian forces held out for months. The claim that the plant had been "completely liberated,” which could not be immediately verified, would signal the end of the most protracted and bloody seige of the war. The official, Maj. Gen. Igor Konashenkov, also said that the commander of the Azov regiment had been captured and taken away from the plant in an armored car. 
WASHINGTON — When former President Donald J. Trump came out against the $40 billion military and humanitarian aid package for Ukraine, casting it as a misguided act of charity, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky feared the Republican votes against the bill could pile up. 
So Mr. McConnell, the Republican leader, intensified his efforts to tamp down on the anti-interventionist strain in his party and to make the case that it was in the United States’ security interest to aid a young democracy standing between Russian aggression and the West. 
He made his most forceful appeal during stops last weekend in Ukraine, Sweden and Finland, in a secretly arranged trip that he said was aimed at showing the Europeans that Mr. Trump’s “America First” views on military aid and alliances did not hold sway over Senate Republicans. 
Mr. McConnell has made a point of pushing back against isolationist voices in his party, including during Mr. Trump’s presidency, when the senator broke sharply with him on drawing down troops from Syria and plans to withdraw American forces from Afghanistan. 
Now that Mr. Trump is gone, Mr. McConnell’s drive to rally sustained support in Congress for investing huge sums of American money in Ukraine’s war effort has become a kind of proxy fight with the former president over where the party will land on foreign policy. 
The Senate leader emerged from a major skirmish on Thursday feeling vindicated: Only 11 Republicans voted to oppose the $40 billion aid measure, even in the face of opposition from right-wing organizations. 
Mr. McConnell pointed to that vote as evidence that the isolationist impulse in his party had waned. He even praised Senator Ted Cruz of Texas, with whom he has frequently clashed, for having the “courage” to speak in favor of the bill. But polling has shown that Republicans continue to be drawn to Mr. Trump’s “America First” doctrine, and it is an open question whether the energy behind it will subside. 
Mr. McConnell spoke to The New York Times after the vote about the strength and staying power of “America First” in his party, why the Senate should quickly ratify Finland’s and Sweden’s accession to NATO, and the definition of victory in Ukraine. 
This interview has been edited and condensed for clarity. 
Why did you decide to make the trip to Europe last weekend? 
One was to try to convey to the Europeans that skepticism about NATO itself, expressed by the previous president, was not the view of Republicans in the Senate. And I also was trying to minimize the vote against the package in my own party. 
We have sort of an isolationist wing, and I think some of the Trump supporters are sort of linked up with the isolationists — a lot of talk out in the primaries about this sort of thing. And I felt this would help diminish the number of votes against the package. I think that worked out well. 
I’d had a private dinner with the president of Finland back in March, right after the invasion, so we’d sort of developed a relationship. So we decided to head up to Stockholm and Helsinki. These are incredibly important admissions to NATO. They both have great militaries. They’re both independent of Russian energy. If anybody’s ready to be a part of NATO, these two countries are, so it was exciting to be there. 
I think the trip helped convince Europeans that Republicans are the way we used to be on NATO. 
Did you personally lobby individual senators to try to allay some of their concerns about the aid bill? 
I certainly was talking about it for the last two weeks to my own colleagues. I said, No. 1, this is a pittance compared to the $2 trillion the Democrats dumped on the economy last year, producing 40-year-high inflation. If ever there were a reason where for an expenditure of this amount, this is it. And if the Russians succeeded, it would cost us a lot more. So yes, I was arguing for support for the package. 
There are not many things we agree with this administration on. And that’s been pretty widely on display the last year and a half. I thought they were a little bit slow to get started, a little bit too intimidated by the thought of provoking the Russians, and we did criticize the slowness. However, I think they’ve stepped up their game. I think they are fully engaged. And I think the administration shares my view that the outcome of this ought to be victory. 
What’s the definition of victory? I can tell you that [President Volodymyr] Zelensky [of Ukraine] believes victory is getting his country back. All of it. 
The Ukrainians are trying to get on offense. And I believe this weapons package is crafted in such a way to give them what they need now, not only to win the ground war, but hopefully to have some impact on getting the Odessa port back open again, because the absence of Ukrainian food is going to resonate throughout the Middle East and Africa as well. 
Our intelligence community says they believe that President [Vladimir V.] Putin [of Russia] is counting on American resolve flagging. As the conflict drags on, do you think it’s going to be harder to maintain support from Republicans for sending aid to Ukraine? 
Well, we’ll see how much pain he can sustain. All indications are, they’re sustaining significantly more pain than we are. He’s counting on us kind of running out of interest and losing steam, not having a staying power — and I think he’s wrong about that. And I think he’s underestimating the amount of pain he’s getting. 
You probably can’t fool the Russian people, like the mothers of the people who’ve been killed and maimed. They lost more people in the first two weeks of this war than we lost in Afghanistan plus Iraq in 20 years. We’ll see how long he can sustain it. 
You’ve noted that isolationism among Republicans is nothing new. But does what we’re currently seeing in some corners of your party feel different or more dangerous to you than what we’ve seen in the past? 
I don’t feel it’s dangerous. You know, I’ve been here a long time, and I’ve watched a lot of campaign rhetoric that seems to disappear once you’re sworn in, and you actually are responsible for governing and confronted with the facts and reality. So I have a tendency not to get overexcited about what A or B may be saying in some primary somewhere in America. I think this is one of those issues where, right and wrong — it’s pretty clear. 
And of course, the best salesman against isolationism in America is President Zelensky. As you heard others say, Winston Churchill in a T-shirt. He’s an inspiration, not only to his own people, but to us as well. 
For a lot of younger people in America, this is the first time they’ve ever seen a clear battle between right and wrong. To a lot of people, Afghanistan was murky. Iraq was murky. It just didn’t seem like a clear choice. I thought both those wars were necessary, by the way, but it was confusing to people. I don’t think anybody’s confused about this. 
We’ve seen the bodies, we’ve seen the destroyed buildings. I don’t think anybody’s confused about who the bad guys are and who the good guys are, and whether or not America really ought to play that kind of role it has traditionally since World War II: being the leader of the free world in opposition to this kind of authoritarianism. 
How important do you think the China factor was in all of this? 
Huge. You’ve got both the prime minister of Japan and the defense minister of Japan saying if you want to push back against the Chinese, the single most important thing to do is beat Putin in Ukraine. That’s from the Japanese, whose biggest worry is not Putin but Xi [Jinping, China’s leader]. 
Senator Ted Cruz’s vote for the aid bill was interesting. He gave a very long speech explaining why, and one of the reasons was to counter China. 
It was an excellent speech, I thought. And since he is among our most conservative members, I thought it was courageous and correct for him to say what he did, to people who follow him carefully. And in fact, I mentioned to him today, I thought it was really excellently crafted and an important message for someone like him to say. He’s clearly chosen a different path from another of our members who has presidential aspirations. 
You said it was courageous — why? 
Well, if you think of the brand of Republicans that you would typically think Senator Cruz would appeal to, this is not what they want to hear. That’s why I applied the word “courage” to it, because I think he was educating his supporters rather than mirroring them. 
You seem confident that the Senate will ratify adding Sweden and Finland to NATO. Is there any concern about the level of risk that would entail for the United States and our allies, particularly given that Finland has 800 miles of shared border with Russia? 
Did you read or hear about what the Finns did to the Russians in 1939? They had a hell of a war. The Soviets tried to take over Finland, and the Finns fought them to a draw. 
I don’t think the Russians want to mess with the Finns. They’ve got a great military; they already spend 2 percent of gross domestic product on defense. Sweden will be up to 2 percent shortly but already has a good military. So I’m not worried about it. 
Their concern was, how long will it take for us to ratify? Chuck [Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York and the majority leader] feels the same way I do: We’re trying to expedite this process and get this treaty or treaties — however they decide to send it up to us — approved as quickly as possible. 
PRUDYANKA, Ukraine — Ukrainian troops sat on a bench under the trees cracking jokes. One hopped on a bicycle and cycled off down the empty road. This was the safest part of Prudyanka, a village north of the city of Kharkiv, their commander said. 
Ukrainian soldiers are in good spirits in this northeastern region of Ukraine. They were part of a Ukrainian counterattack force that pushed Russian troops back from Kharkiv two weeks ago, putting an end to months of shelling of the city, Ukraine’s second-largest. 
In the ensuing euphoria over dealing that setback to the Russian forces, there was talk of Ukrainian troops marching on to the Russian border only 25 miles away. But that seems to have been premature, with some Russian troops north of Kharkiv holding on and digging in, becoming much harder to drive back. 
While the Russians did withdraw from the immediate outskirts of Kharkiv, they are still close enough to shell the city and heavy fighting continues within earshot of a ring of villages to the east that they recently abandoned, Ukrainian troops and villagers said in interviews. 
“We are afraid they will come again,” said Olha, 66, who was collecting freshly laid eggs in her village of Vilkhivka, east of Kharkiv, as the bombardment sounded from across the hills. “God help us that it does not happen.” 
The U.S. ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield, told the BBC on Friday that her alarm over looming food shortages around the world being caused by Russia’s blockade of Ukrainian ports had reached “level 10.” “This crisis has exacerbated what is already a serious food insecurity issue,” she said. Her comments echoed those of the U.S. secretary of state, Antony J. Blinken, who said at a U.N. Security Council meeting this week that the world’s food supply “has quite literally been held hostage by the Russian military.” 
PARIS — The men’s and women’s tennis tours responded to Wimbledon’s ban on Russian and Belarusian players on Friday by stripping the event of ranking points this year, the most significant rebuke to date of efforts by global sports organizations to ostracize individual Russian athletes as punishment for their country’s invasion of Ukraine. 
It is a move without precedent in tennis, and without the points, Wimbledon, the oldest of the four Grand Slam tournaments, will technically be an exhibition event, bringing no ranking boost to those who excel on its pristine lawns this year. 
“The ability for players of any nationality to enter tournaments based on merit, and without discrimination is fundamental to our Tour,” the ATP said in a statement, saying that the ban undermined its ranking system. 
The International Tennis Federation, a governing body that operates separately from the tours, also announced it would remove ranking points from the junior and wheelchair events at Wimbledon this year. 
Though Wimbledon, for now, is the only one of the four major tournaments to ban Russians and Belarusians, the power play by the tours could lead to countermeasures, including the possibility of Grand Slam events considering an alternative ranking system or aligning to make more decisions independently of the tours. 
Organizers of Wimbledon, a grass-court tournament and British cultural institution that begins on June 27, announced the ban on Russian and Belarusian players last month in response to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which was undertaken with the support of Belarus. Other British grass-court tournaments that are staged in June, including the Wimbledon prep events at Eastbourne and at Queen’s Club in London, have announced similar bans. 
So have sports as diverse as soccer, auto racing, track and field and ice hockey. Russia has been stripped of the hosting rights to events and has seen its teams ejected from major competitions like soccer’s World Cup. But only a few sports, notably figure skating and track and field, have barred individual athletes from Russia and Belarus from competing. 
Both tours condemned the invasion of Ukraine but argued that individual athletes should not be prevented from competing, in the words of WTA chief executive Steve Simon, “solely because of their nationalities or the decisions made by the governments of their countries.” 
But Sergiy Stakohvsky, a recently retired Ukrainian men’s player now in the Ukrainian military, expressed bitterness at the decision, calling it a “shameful day in tennis” in a post on Twitter. 
Standing by its ban, Wimbledon expressed “deep disappointment” and said stripping points was “disproportionate” in light of the pressure it was under from the British government. 
The ATP’s and WTA’s move was made after extensive internal debate and despite considerable pushback from players. A sizable group of men’s and women’s players was gathering support for a petition in favor of retaining Wimbledon’s points before the tours made their announcements. But removing the points is expected to have little effect on the tournament’s bottom line. 
The world’s top players who are not from Russia and Belarus are still expected to participate. Novak Djokovic, the world No. 1 men’s player from Serbia and a six-time Wimbledon champion, made it clear on Sunday after winning the Italian Open in Rome that he would not support skipping the event in protest even if he remained against the decision to bar the Russian and Belarusian players. 
“A boycott is a very aggressive thing,” Djokovic said. “There are much better solutions.” 
This year’s Wimbledon champions will still play in front of big crowds, lift the same trophies hoisted by their predecessors and have their names inscribed on the honor roll posted inside the clubhouse of the All England Club. They will be considered Grand Slam champions although it remains unclear whether Wimbledon will maintain prize money at its usual levels. 
Stripping points will have consequences on the sport’s pecking order. Daniil Medvedev, a Russian ranked No. 2, is now in excellent position to displace No. 1 Novak Djokovic after Wimbledon because Djokovic’s 2,000 points for winning Wimbledon last year will come off his total without being replaced. Medvedev, who reached the round of 16 at Wimbledon last year, will only lose 180 points. 
The leadership of the ATP, including its player council, which includes stars like Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal, ultimately decided that it was important to dissuade tournaments from barring players — now or in the future — based on political concerns. 
“How do you draw the line of when you ban players and when you don’t?” Yevgeny Kafelnikov, a Russian and a former No. 1 singles player, said in a telephone interview from Moscow. 
Unlike Wimbledon, the lead-in events in Britain have retained their ranking points despite being formally part of the tours. Wimbledon, as a Grand Slam event, operates independently but does have agreements with the tours on many levels. But the ATP and WTA chose not to strip points from the British lead-in events because other European tournaments were still open to Russian and Belarusian players during those three weeks of the season. The WTA did announce that it was putting the British tour events in Nottingham, Birmingham and Eastbourne on probation because of the ban. 
There was also concern that without ranking points on offer, players would choose to withdraw from the British grass-court tournaments. Wimbledon, with its huge prize money and prestige, is unlikely to experience such withdrawals even without points, but there could still be some attrition. 
Wimbledon opted for a ban after rejecting the British government’s suggestion that Russian and Belarusian players provide “written declarations” that they were not representing their countries; that they were not receiving state funding or sponsorship from companies with strong links to the Russian state; and that they had not and would not express support for the invasion of Ukraine or their countries’ leadership. 
A few Russian men’s players had expressed willingness to Wimbledon to sign such a declaration and even donate their prize money to Ukrainian causes, but that was only a small number of the players concerned and Wimbledon was still worried that signing such a declaration could put players or their families at risk . It also expressed concern that Russian players taking part in Wimbledon might “benefit the propaganda machine of the Russian regime.” 
However, some Russian and Belarusian nationals could still receive accreditation at Wimbledon this year as player guests or members of player support teams if they sign a declaration and meet other criteria such as not having a high media profile that could be used for propaganda purposes. 
For now, Wimbledon and the British grass-court events remain outliers. No other tour event has followed their lead. Russian and Belarusian players, including tMedvedev and the women’s No. 7, Aryna Sabalenka of Belarus, are set to take part in the French Open, the next Grand Slam tournament on the schedule, when it starts on Sunday. The United States Tennis Association, which runs the U.S. Open that will be played after Wimbledon, called for the tours to reconsider and reinstate Wimbledon’s points but has made no move on banning Russians and Belarusians, whose citizens, it should be noted, continue to play for clubs in the National Hockey League. 
After the war in Ukraine began in February, professional tennis moved quickly to bar Russia and Belarus from team events such as the Davis Cup and Billie Jean King Cup, both of which were won by Russia in 2021. The tours and the International Tennis Federation also canceled tournaments scheduled to be played in Russia and Belarus later this year, including the Kremlin Cup in Moscow. The I.T.F. suspended the countries’ tennis federations from its membership as well. 
But Russian and Belarusian players were allowed to keep competing on tour as individuals, albeit without any national identification. There are no flags or countries listed next to their names on scoreboards, in draws or in the tour’s official computer rankings. 
No Russian or Belarusian player has indicated publicly that they intend to take legal measures against Wimbledon to seek entry into the tournament. Medvedev made it clear that he would not even though he agreed that there might be room for such an appeal. 
“I’m not going to go to court for this one,” Medvedev said. 
But legal action by other players cannot be ruled out even if Wimbledon officials carefully studied the legal options before announcing the ban. 
Show more 
May 20, 2022, 1:51 p.m. ET 
May 20, 2022, 1:51 p.m. ET 
Cassandra Vinograd 
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine said a missile strike on a cultural center in the northeast Kharkiv region has wounded seven people, including an 11-year-old. “The occupiers have chosen as their enemies culture, education, and humanity,” he said in a Telegram post, with a video purportedly of the strike in the city of Lozova. “What’s going on in the minds of people who chose such targets? Absolute evil, absolute idiocy.” 
Oksana, 70, worked at a center for volunteers on the outskirts of Lviv in western Ukraine on Friday. Aid donations and volunteers have declined significantly since she started supporting the center in early March. “I just can’t sit at home,” she said. “I need to do something, just need to do something good.” 
The head of the Azov battalion issued a video statement on Friday urging proper burials for the fighters who died at the Azovstal steel plant in Mariupol, a move that came amid questions about the fate of hundreds who have surrendered to Russia and how many still remain at the sprawling facility. 
Denis Prokopenko, the leader of Azov, noted that the military’s supreme command had ordered the battalion, a unit of the National Guard, to preserve the lives and health of servicemen and “to stop the defense of the city.” 
On Friday, the Russian Defense Ministry said that nearly 2,000 Azovstal fighters, with the Azov battalion making up their core, had surrendered, but that could not be independently verified. It was not clear how many fighters remain holed up at the plant. 
Questions have swirled about the whereabouts of Mr. Prokopenko and other commanders. It was not possible to tell where he was speaking or when the video was filmed, but it came a day after the battalion's deputy commander released a video in which he said that commanders remained on the territory of the plant. That contradicted reports that some may have surrendered. 
Capt. Svyatoslav Palamar sent the video to news outlets, including to a reporter with The New York Times. In a separate message on WhatsApp, he said that he could not disclose how many fighters remained on the territory of the plant. It was impossible to independently verify information about any fighters who remained. 
In the video released Friday, the commander, Mr. Prokopenko, said that the Azov regiment suffered from “lack of supplies while waging tough battles and being surrounded from all sides,” he said. 
“The civilians were evacuated, the severely wounded received necessary assistance and have been evacuated with their eventual exchange and transfer to Ukrainian territory,” he said in the statement. “As far as dead heroes, the process is ongoing. I hope soon their relatives and the whole of Ukraine could bury them with honor.” 
Ukrainian officials, as well as fighters at the plant, have declined to disclose details about negotiations with Russian forces over the surrender and departure of troops from Azovstal. The International Committee of the Red Cross said on Thursday that it had registered hundreds of prisoners of war, including wounded combatants, who had left the plant. 
The Red Cross said that it was not involved with transporting the fighters but that registration, which started Tuesday, allowed the organization to “track those who have been captured and help them keep in touch with their families.” It added that “it must have immediate access to all P.O.W.s in all places where they are held.” 
The Kremlin’s media outlets have been citing the Azov Battalion’s links with far-right movements as proof of their false claim that the entirety of Ukraine has been infected with Nazism. The claim was used by President Vladimir V. Putin as one of the prime justifications for his decision to invade Ukraine. The Russian Supreme Court has said it would hold a hearing next week on whether to declare the group a terrorist organization. 
Matthew Mpoke Bigg and Valerie Hopkins contributed reporting. 
May 20, 2022, 10:42 a.m. ET 
May 20, 2022, 10:42 a.m. ET 
Matthew Mpoke Bigg 
Russian forces fired artillery on Friday at a school in Sievierodonetsk, in the Luhansk region, where more than 200 people were sheltering, a regional military official said. Three people died in the attack, the official said. A battle has raged for weeks around the city in east Ukraine and officials said earlier on Friday that 12 civilians had been killed over the past day. 
Russia will cut natural gas supplies to Finland on Saturday, according to Finland’s state energy provider, the latest salvo in a growing confrontation between the two countries over the war in Ukraine. 
Finland this week applied to join NATO, reversing a longstanding policy of military neutrality and angering Russia, which sees the eastward expansion of the alliance as a threat to its national security. Moscow had previously threatened “retaliation” if Finland joined NATO. The two countries share an 830-mile border. 
The ostensible reason for the halt in Russian gas exports, though, was a dispute over payments that had been rumbling for weeks. 
Gasum, the Finnish energy provider, said on Friday that Russia was suspending the supply of natural gas to Finland starting at 7 a.m. the next morning because the country had failed to comply with Moscow’s demand to make payments in rubles. The move comes just days after Moscow also suspended electricity exports to Finland, citing payment issues. 
“It is very unfortunate that the supply of natural gas under our supply contract will now run out,” the chief executive of Gasum, Mika Wiljanen, said in a statement on Friday. “However, we have prepared carefully for this situation and if there are no disruptions in the gas transmission network, we will be able to supply gas to all our customers in the coming months.” 
A spokeswoman for Gasum, Olga Väisänen, said Russia’s state energy company, Gazprom Export, had said in April that it required payment in rubles instead of euros. 
Following negotiations, Gasum this week decided to take the matter to arbitration in the Swedish capital, Stockholm, under the terms of its contract, Ms. Väisänen said, and the deadline for the ruble payment was on Friday. 
“Of course, it is very difficult to say what is in the back of the decision, but the timing is linked to the ruble payments,” she added. 
Gasum supplies about 60 percent of Finland’s domestic market and gets all of its supplies from Russia. Ms. Väisänen said that during the next few summer months, when demand is lower, Gasum will be able to source adequate supply from Estonia using the Balticconnector pipeline and, after that, it will turn to other sources to meet demand. 
Gas exports are vital to Russia’s economy. They also give Moscow a potent diplomatic tool: in April, Russia halted natural gas supplies to Poland and Bulgaria, two NATO countries dependent on the Russian energy who have strongly opposed the war in Ukraine. Poland and Bulgaria had also balked at making payments in rubles. 
May 20, 2022, 9:48 a.m. ET 
May 20, 2022, 9:48 a.m. ET 
Matthew Mpoke Bigg 
The International Committee of the Red Cross on Friday demanded full access to people who have become prisoners of war and civilian internees as a result of the war in Ukraine to provide families with answers about their loved ones. The Red Cross said that it was visiting prisoners on all sides of the war in accordance with the Geneva Conventions. 
ROME — The Italian authorities said on Friday that they were investigating a claim of responsibility by pro-Russia hackers as part of a broad attack on the websites of several Italian institutions and government agencies. 
The attack, which began Thursday evening, was claimed by a hacker cooperative called “Killnet” and its affiliate “Legion.” The police said they believed the claim was legitimate and was significant in the cases of two crashed sites: the Italian foreign ministry’s and the national magistrates association’s. 
The foreign ministry’s website was still not working at 1 p.m. local time on Friday. The authorities said that other attacks were less worrisome and that they had thwarted another attempted attack last week, by the same cooperative, targeting the Eurovision Song Contest. The contest, which took place in Turin, was won by the Kalush Orchestra, a folk rap group from Ukraine. 
The police said Telegram channels used to plot and claim responsibility for the attacks were the same in both cases. 
Tensions have increased between Russia and Italy after years of warm relations. In 2018, the formation of a Russia-friendly government made Italy a chief target for Moscow’s attempts to divide and weaken the European Union and its sanctions regimes against Russia. 
But under Prime Minister Mario Draghi, who came to power in early 2021, Italy has toughened its position amid Russian aggression in Ukraine and vigorously backed sanctions against President Vladimir V. Putin and his inner circle. The Italian government has impounded villas and yachts owned by Russians on the sanctions list. 
Mr. Draghi last week met with President Biden in Washington, and he told the Italian Parliament on Thursday that the White House shared the desire of Italy and the European Union to seek a cease-fire as soon as possible. 
“But Ukraine will decide what peace to accept, no one else,” Mr. Draghi said. 
KÖNIGSWINTER, Germany — The Group of 7 economic powers agreed on Friday to provide nearly $20 billion to support Ukraine’s economy over the coming months to help keep the country’s government running while it fights to repel a Russian invasion. 
In a joint statement after two days of meetings, finance ministers from the Group of 7 affirmed their commitment to help Ukraine with a mix of grants and loans. Ukraine needs approximately $5 billion per month to maintain basic government services, according to the International Monetary Fund. 
The $19.8 billion of financing was agreed on after the United States, which is contributing more than $9 billion in short-term financing, pressed its allies to do more to help secure Ukraine’s future. The statement did not break down how much the other Group of 7 nations will contribute. 
The European Commission, however, previously agreed to provide up to 9 billion euros of financial assistance. The European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Finance Corporation plan to provide an additional $3.4 billion to Ukrainian state-owned enterprises and the private sector. 
“We will continue to stand by Ukraine throughout this war and beyond and are prepared to do more as needed,” the statement said. 
The economic policymakers also acknowledged that more fallout from the war lies ahead, and they pledged on Friday to keep markets open as they combat rising food and energy prices around the world. They also said that their central banks would be closely monitoring inflation measures and the impact that rising prices are having on their economies. 
“We are very concerned about crises and macroeconomic developments,” Christian Lindner, Germany’s finance minister, said during a closing news conference on Friday, according to an English translation. 
The two-day summit on the outskirts of Bonn came at a pivotal time for the world economy, with concern mounting that a combination of war, supply chain problems and the lingering effects of the pandemic could lead to a contraction in global output. Finance ministers discussed ways to keep pressure on Russia while minimizing the damage to their economies as they debated the merits of a European embargo on Russian oil and whether seized Russian assets could be used to pay for Ukraine’s reconstruction. 
“The values of the international community have been totally discarded by Russia,” Mr. Lindner said. 
Officials from the world’s leading advanced economies discussed other areas for possible collaboration, such as combating climate change and making progress on a global tax agreement that was reached last year but faces implementation problems. 
But the complicated mix of foreign policy challenges and economic headwinds dominated the meetings. 
Treasury Secretary Janet L. Yellen warned this week that Europe could be vulnerable to a recession because of its exposure to Russian energy. She does not expect a recession in the United States but said on Thursday that a “soft landing” was not guaranteed as the Federal Reserve raises interest rates to tame inflation. 
“I think it’s conceivable there could be a soft landing, that requires both skill and luck,” Ms. Yellen told reporters on the sidelines of the Group of 7 summit. “It’s a very difficult economic situation.” 
Russia’s military is under pressure after a series of bruising battles left its forces exhausted, and it may not have adequate time to re-equip and refurbish them for its push in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, analysts say. 
In particular, a lack of reserve manpower is forcing Russian commanders to consolidate depleted battalion tactical groups, according to the Institute for the Study of War. 
The Institute quoted an anonymous U.S. defense official as saying that Russian forces have had to disband and combine some of their battalion tactical groups in Ukraine to compensate for casualties and other losses. 
At the same time, the Institute said that some Russian troops who were withdrawn from around Ukraine’s second-largest city, Kharkiv, in the northeast of the country, have been redeployed toward the Donetsk region in Donbas. 
And units that fought in the southern port city of Mariupol can now be sent elsewhere after the surrender of Ukrainian fighters defending a large steel plant effectively subdued the city. 
Those forces need to be re-equipped and refurbished before they can be redeployed but Russian commanders are under pressure to demonstrate tangible success, according to a British intelligence report. 
“Russia will probably redistribute these forces without adequate preparation, which risks further attrition,” the report, from Britain’s defense intelligence agency, said. 
Refurbishing units after combat and giving them a break before they are redeployed is necessary in wars, said Ben Barry, an expert at the International Institute for Strategic Studies. 
Mr. Barry described combat as akin to a “dangerous, contact sport” and said that, in effect, a team needed to regroup between each encounter. 
Turkey will keep talking to European leaders, but it still objects to Finland’s and Sweden’s NATO bids, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said on Friday after a phone call with Prime Minister Mark Rutte of the Netherlands. Erdogan also repeated his concerns to reporters about the two Nordic countries’ support for groups that Turkey considers terrorists. 
He will talk to Britain and Finland on Saturday, Erdogan said, as well as with NATO’s general secretary, Jens Stoltenberg. He did not mention whom he would talk to in Finland and Britain. 
Gerhard Schröder, the former chancellor of Germany and personal friend of Russian President Vladimir V. Putin, is stepping down as chair of the board of the state-controlled Russian oil giant Rosneft, the company announced Friday, according to the Interfax news agency. 
The announcement came a day after Germany’s parliamentary budget committee voted to strip the former leader of more than 400,000 euros worth of privileges after he refused to distance himself from Mr. Putin and relinquish his links to Russian energy companies even as Russia is waging a brutal war in Ukraine. 
Mr. Schröder had presided over the Rosneft board since 2017, being paid $600,000 a year. He remains chairman of the shareholder committee of Nord Stream, the company that operates a gas pipeline directly connecting Russia and Germany under the Baltic Sea, reportedly being paid about $270,000 a year. 
He also served as head of the supervisory board of Nord Stream 2, which built a second pipeline, until it was shuttered before the war. 
Gazprom, which owns 51 percent of Nord Stream and all of Nord Stream 2, had announced three weeks before Russia launched its attack on Ukraine that Mr. Schröder would join its board, too. 
May 20, 2022, 7:38 a.m. ET 
May 20, 2022, 7:38 a.m. ET 
Katrin Bennhold 
Gerhard Schröder, the former chancellor of Germany and personal friend of Russian President Vladimir V. Putin, is stepping down as chair of the board of the state-controlled Russian oil giant Rosneft, the company announced Friday, according to the Interfax news service. 
Russia will cut natural gas supplies to Finland on Saturday, according to Finland’s state energy provider. The company, Gasum, called the move from Gazprom “highly regrettable,” saying in a statement that it would supply customers through other sources and that it did not expect disruptions. The move comes a week after Russia suspended electricity exports to Finland in apparent retaliation for Helsinki’s decision to pursue NATO membership. 
Russia will cut natural gas supplies to Finland on Saturday, according to Finland’s state energy provider, underscoring the geopolitical fallout as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine spurs one of the most radical redrawings of Europe’s security order in decades. 
Russia said Friday that it was suspending gas shipments because Finland had failed to make payments in rubles. But the Kremlin has used Russia’s energy supply as a political weapon in the past, and Russian officials have expressed dismay over moves by Finland and Sweden to join NATO. Last weekend, Moscow suspended electricity exports to Finland as that country’s aims to join the military alliance became clear. 
Mr. Schröder is a friend of President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and has been criticized for maintaining the relationship even as Russia wages its brutal war. Germany’s parliamentary budget committee voted Thursday to strip the former leader of more than 400,000 euros worth of privileges after he refused to distance himself from Mr. Putin and relinquish his links to Russian energy companies. 
Under pressure to score battlefield victories and shore up its forces for an intensifying battle in the east, Russia moved Friday toward eliminating age limits for military service — an apparent effort to expand the pool of potential recruits. Mr. Putin has resisted ordering a large-scale military draft, apparently fearing domestic backlash. 
In other developments: 
On the eastern battlefield, a weekslong fight around the city of Sievierodonetsk has intensified in the past day, according to Ukrainian civilian and military officials. 
Ukraine’s foreign minister criticized what he called a lack of support from NATO since Russia began its invasion three months ago, but he acknowledged that his country had received support from individual NATO countries. 
Turkey will keep talking to European leaders but still objects to Finland’s and Sweden’s NATO bids, President Recep Tayyip Erdogan said Friday. 


Russia-Ukraine war at a glance: what we know on day 725 
This article is more than 1 month old 
Zelenskiy pleads for more arms as troops pull out of Avdiivka; Biden promises he will ‘fight’ to get Ukraine ‘the ammunition they need’ 
Volodymyr Zelenskiy issued a desperate plea for fresh arms on Saturday after Ukrainian troops pulled out of Avdiivka, handing Moscow its first major military victory since last May. He told the Munich Security Conference that the slowing of weapons supplies was having a direct impact on the frontline and was forcing Ukraine to cede territory. 
Zelenskiy also told world leaders not to ask when the Ukraine war will end but instead “why is Putin still able to continue it” as he underlined the threat Russia poses beyond his own country and called for more support. 
President Joe Biden said he had told Zelenskiy that he was “confident” the US Congress would renew war aid, but added that without American help Kyiv could lose further territory to Russian advances. Failure by US lawmakers to approve new funding for military aid to Kyiv would be “absurd” and “unethical,” Biden told reporters after attending church in Delaware, adding: “I’m going to fight to get them the ammunition they need.” 
A number of Ukrainian troops were captured by Russia during their withdrawal from the town of Avdiivka, Oleksandr Tarnavskiy, the Ukrainian commander responsible for forces in Ukraine’s south-east, has said. 
The Russian defence ministry said on Sunday that Ukrainian forces had left Avdiivka and were entrenched at the nearby Avdiivka coke and chemical plant in Ukraine’s Donetsk region. “Measures are being taken to completely clear the city of militants and to block Ukrainian units that have left the city and are entrenched at the Avdiivka Coke and Chemical Plant,” spokesperson Igor Konashenkov said in a video published on the ministry’s Telegram channel. 
Russian forces shelled and fired missiles at a series of cities in eastern Ukraine on Saturday, killing at least three people and leaving others under the rubble of shattered buildings, Ukrainian officials said. Two cities close to the frontline in eastern Ukraine’s Donetsk region – Kramatorsk and Slovyansk – came under fire. And farther north in the town of Kupiansk one person was killed when a two-storey house was struck by Russian shells, the governor of Kharkiv region said. 
Ukrainian forces shot down three Russian warplanes over eastern Ukraine on Saturday, the country’s air force chief has said. This claim has not been independently verified. 
Kamala Harris on Saturday criticised Donald Trump’s cajoling of Russia to attack Nato allies of the US who don’t pay their dues, saying the American people would never accept a president who bowed to a dictator. “The idea that the former president of the US would say that he – quote – encourages a brutal dictator to invade our allies, and that the United States of America would simply stand by and watch,” Harris said. “No previous US president, regardless of their party, has bowed down to a Russian dictator before.” 
Ukrainian foreign minister Dmytro Kuleba said on Saturday he had discussed the prospects for peace with his Chinese counterpart, part of a long-running bid to bolster relations with Beijing. Kuleba said he had discussed with China’s top diplomat Wang Yi about Ukraine’s plans to hold a global peace summit, which Switzerland has agreed to help stage. 
Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny’s mother and his lawyer were told on Saturday that he had been struck down by “sudden death syndrome”, his team has said. Another lawyer of Navalny’s, however, was told by the penal colony’s investigative committee that the cause of death had not yet been established, Navalny’s spokesperson said. 
G7 foreign ministers have demanded that Russia fully clarify the circumstances surrounding Navalny’s death. The foreign ministers of Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and the United States met in Munich on Saturday. 


Russia says Ukraine launched far-ranging drone attacks on final day of Russia’s presidential vote 
Russian authorities say two died in Belgorod region as a result of Ukrainian attack 
Photos 
3 
1 of 3 | 
This photo released by Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov’s telegram channel on Saturday, March 16, 2024, shows broken and burned cars after shelling from the Ukrainian side, in Belgorod, Russia. A Russian regional governor says two people have been killed in Ukrainian shelling of the city of Belgorod, close to the border with Ukraine. Three others were wounded. (Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov telegram channel via AP) 
Read More 
1 of 3 
This photo released by Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov’s telegram channel on Saturday, March 16, 2024, shows broken and burned cars after shelling from the Ukrainian side, in Belgorod, Russia. A Russian regional governor says two people have been killed in Ukrainian shelling of the city of Belgorod, close to the border with Ukraine. Three others were wounded. (Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov telegram channel via AP) 
This photo released by Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov’s telegram channel on Saturday, March 16, 2024, shows emergency employees working by damaged and burned cars after shelling from the Ukrainian side, in Belgorod, Russia. A Russian regional governor says two people have been killed in Ukrainian shelling of the city of Belgorod, close to the border with Ukraine. Three others were wounded. (Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov telegram channel via AP) 
Read More 
2 of 3 
This photo released by Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov’s telegram channel on Saturday, March 16, 2024, shows emergency employees working by damaged and burned cars after shelling from the Ukrainian side, in Belgorod, Russia. A Russian regional governor says two people have been killed in Ukrainian shelling of the city of Belgorod, close to the border with Ukraine. Three others were wounded. (Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov telegram channel via AP) 
This photo released by Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov’s telegram channel on Saturday, March 16, 2024, shows a broken truck and a bus after shelling from the Ukrainian side in Belgorod, Russia. A Russian regional governor says two people have been killed in Ukrainian shelling of the city of Belgorod, close to the border with Ukraine. Three others were wounded. (Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov telegram channel via AP) 
Read More 
3 of 3 
This photo released by Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov’s telegram channel on Saturday, March 16, 2024, shows a broken truck and a bus after shelling from the Ukrainian side in Belgorod, Russia. A Russian regional governor says two people have been killed in Ukrainian shelling of the city of Belgorod, close to the border with Ukraine. Three others were wounded. (Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov telegram channel via AP) 
Ukraine launched a new wave of attacks inside Russian territory Sunday, killing at least two people, including a teenager, according to local officials, as Russians cast ballots on the final day of a presidential vote set to extend President Vladimir Putin’s rule for another six years. 
Authorities also said that a drone fell on a refinery in the Krasnodar region, sparking a blaze that was extinguished a few hours later. A worker at the refinery died of a heart attack, officials said. 
Refineries and oil terminals have been targets of Ukrainian drone attacks in recent days, according to Russian officials, part of stepped up assaults on Russian territory, including long-range drone attacks and alleged incursions by Ukraine-based Russian proxies, as Putin heads for near-certain reelection in Russia. 
The Russian Defense Ministry reported downing 35 Ukrainian drones overnight, including four in the Moscow region. Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said that a fifth drone, close to the capital’s Domodedovo airport, was downed on Sunday morning. No casualties or damage were reported. 
According to the Defense Ministry, two drones were shot down over the Kaluga region, just south of the Russian capital, and four in the Yaroslavl region, northeast of Moscow. 
The attacks on the Yaroslavl region, which is located about 800 kilometers (500 miles) from the Ukrainian border, were some of the farthest launched by Ukraine so far. 
More Ukrainian drones were downed over the Belgorod, Kursk and Rostov regions that border Ukraine, and the southern Krasnodar region, the Defense Ministry said. 
Shelling of Belgorod on Sunday morning killed a 16-year-old girl and wounded her father, while a second assault later in the day killed another man and wounded 11 others, Gov. Vyacheslav Gladkov said. 
Elsewhere, a drone strike at a military installation in Moldova’s breakaway republic of Transnistria on Sunday destroyed a helicopter and ignited a fire, officials said. The area’s pro-Russia authorities blamed the strike on Ukraine. The Bureau for Reintegration Policies said in a statement that they didn’t “confirm any attack” on Transnistria, and described the reports as an “attempt to cause fear and panic in the region.” 
There have been a series of Ukrainian drone raids over the past few days that Putin described as an attempt by Ukraine to frighten residents and derail Russia’s presidential election. 
“Those enemy strikes haven’t been and won’t be left unpunished,” he vowed during Friday’s meeting of Russia’s Security Council. “I’m sure that our people, the people of Russia, will respond to that with even greater cohesion.” 
Two Russian ballistic missiles hit the southern Ukrainian city of Mykolaiv on Sunday, wounding at least five people, the region’s Gov. Vitaliy Kim wrote on the Telegram messaging app. 
The Ukrainian military also said that 14 Russian drones had been shot down over the Odesa region Sunday, following a Russian ballistic missile assault on the southern port city Friday that killed at least 21 people. 
Britain’s defense ministry said Sunday that the country’s defense secretary, Grant Shapps, abandoned a trip to Odesa earlier this month because of a Russian missile threat. The Sunday Times reported that Shapps, who visited Kyiv on March 7, had been warned by British intelligence that Russia had become aware of his travel plans. 
As the war drags into a third year, Russian forces have made some slow and incremental gains along the front line, relying on their edge in firepower, while Ukraine has fought back with more drone attacks deep inside Russia. 
There has also been an increasing number of cross-border raids. 
The Freedom of Russia Legion — one of a number of armed groups that includes Russians fighting alongside Ukrainian forces — said Sunday that it had taken control of the Russian border village of Gorkovskiy in the Belgorod region. A video released on social media appeared to show troops removing the Russian flag from the village’s main administration building. The images weren’t independently verified by The Associated Press. 
A similar group, the Russian Volunteer Corps, released a video on social media Saturday alleging to have captured 25 Russian soldiers. The claim also couldn’t be independently verified. 
Meanwhile, the Russian military said on Saturday that it had thwarted another attempted cross-border incursion by Ukrainian “sabotage and reconnaissance groups.” 
Cross-border attacks in the area have taken place sporadically since the war began and have been the subject of claims and counterclaims, as well as disinformation and propaganda. 
___ 
Jill Lawless in London, and Stephen McGrath in Sighisoara, Romania, contributed to this report. 
___ 
This story has been corrected to show that the contributor Stephen McGrath is in Sighisoara, Romania, not Bucharest. 


Russia vows to tighten border security and warns EU on using frozen assets to help Kyiv 
Another deadly missile strike hits Ukraine as it receives first €4.5 billion tranche in new EU aid 
Russia has vowed to tighten security in border areas amid deadly artillery strikes and armed raids from Ukraine, and said the European Union would suffer legal and reputational damage if it approved a plan to use frozen Russian assets to aid Kyiv. 
At least four people were killed in a Russian missile attack on Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine on Wednesday, as Moscow’s military said it had cleared anti-Kremlin militants from the village of Kozinka, 80km from Kharkiv in the Russian border region of Belgorod. 
Leaders of EU states meeting on Thursday and Friday in Brussels are expected to discuss a proposal from the bloc to use some €190 billion in Russian assets frozen in the EU banking system to buy arms for Ukraine. The money would come from revenue such as interest payments, not from seizure and sale of the assets themselves. 
“The amount of money – three billion [euro] per year – is not even extraordinary. But it is not negligible,” said EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell. 
European states want to ramp up the production and purchase of arms to supply Ukraine and replenish their own stocks, amid a Republican-imposed freeze on US aid to Kyiv and fears for what a second Donald Trump presidency could mean for the Nato alliance. 
“The Europeans are fully aware of the damage that such decisions may do to their economy and image, to their reputation as a reliable guarantor of the inviolability of property,” Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said of the plan for Russian assets. 
“Damage will be inevitable. People involved in such decisions, and states that decide to do that would face prosecution for many decades.” 
Ukraine – which wants all of Russia’s frozen assets to be used to pay reparations – said it had received the first €4.5 billion payment from a new four-year, €50 billion EU economic support fund. 
Belgorod region governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said “massive” shelling from Ukraine killed at least two people on Wednesday, and announced that entry to several districts would be restricted and schools would close early for Easter holidays. 
The region plans to evacuate 9,000 children from border areas amid daily artillery and drone attacks and raids from Russian militants based in Ukraine who vow to overthrow Vladimir Putin, Russia’s autocratic leader of 24 years. 
“Of course, the primary task is to ensure security. There are different ways here, they are difficult, but we will do them,” Mr Putin told officials who oversaw his inevitable re-election last weekend in a ballot that was closed to all real opposition candidates. 
Amid farmers’ protests in Poland and other states, the EU has agreed to expand the cap on food imports from Ukraine to include eggs, poultry and sugar in a provisional deal on extending tariff-free access to Ukrainian food producers until June 2025. 
France dismissed a claim from Russia’s SVR foreign intelligence service that it was preparing to send 2,000 soldiers to Ukraine. 
The defence ministry in Paris said the claim was “a further example of the systematic use of mass disinformation by Russia”. 
Daniel McLaughlin is a contributor to The Irish Times from central and eastern Europe 


Skip links 
Russia-Ukraine war: List of key events, day 752 
As the war enters its 752nd day, these are the main developments. 
Published On 16 Mar 202416 Mar 2024 
Here is the situation on Saturday, March 16, 2024. 
Fighting 
Ukraine’s President Volodymr Zelenskyy has condemned a Russian missile attack on the Black Sea port city of Odesa in which at least 21 people were killed and 75 wounded. 
Zelenskyy said Russia would receive a “fair response” from Ukrainian forces for what he called a “vile” strike on a city that has been attacked by Russian drones or missiles almost every day this month. 
Ukrainian authorities have begun mass evacuations of communities in the northern Sumy region, close to the Russian border, after extended periods of intense shelling of the area, local officials said. 
Ukrainian drones struck two oil refineries belonging to Russian state-owned oil giant Rosneft in Samara region, Governor Dmitry Azarov said on Telegram. 
There were no casualties but the Volga river region’s Syzran refinery was on fire, he said, while an attack on the Novokuibyshevsk refinery was thwarted. 
Russia’s President Vladimir Putin promised to punish Ukraine for what he said was election day shelling that struck civilian targets on Russian territory. Russians are voting in elections that end on Sunday, with Putin widely expected to win a fifth term. 
Politics and diplomacy 
Sergiy Kyslytsya, Ukraine’s ambassador to the United Nations, said elections in the Russian-occupied regions of Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk, Zaporizhia and Crimea, which Russia invaded and annexed in 2014, were “illegitimate”. 
“Holding elections in another UN member state’s territory without its consent is in manifest disregard for the principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity. Such elections have no validity under international law,” Kyslytsya said in a joint statement with European Union countries, the United States, the United Kingdom and other nations. 
A UN commission of inquiry on Ukraine said it had gathered more evidence that Russia has systematically tortured Ukrainian prisoners of war, through rape threats and the use of electric shocks on genitals. Some Ukrainian prisoners were so hungry in Russian detention centres that they resorted to eating soap, worms and leftover dog food, the report said. 
The Group of Seven (G7) countries warned Iran against providing ballistic missiles to Russia to use in its war against Ukraine and said it would “respond swiftly” with new sanctions, including possibly banning Iran Air from Europe. 
German Chancellor Olaf Scholz hosted French President Emmanuel Macron and Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk in Berlin for urgent discussions on how best to support Ukraine, which is short on the military resources needed to definitively halt Russia’s invasion. 


Skip links 
Russia-Ukraine war: List of key events, day 753 
As the war enters its 753rd day, these are the main developments. 
Published On 18 Mar 202418 Mar 2024 
Here is the situation on Sunday, March 17, 2024. 
Fighting 
One person was killed and another injured in the Velykopysarivska community of Ukraine’s Sumy region, which borders Russia, according to the region’s military administration. 
The attack was one of 60 reported shelling incidents of border territories and settlements, which damaged buildings including a hospital, kindergarten, library and a gas pipeline, Sumy officials said. 
Earlier on Sunday, one man was killed and at least eight people were wounded in a Russian missile attack on the Black Sea port city of Mykolaiv, Ukrainian officials said, after an overnight strike on the port city of Odesa. 
Russia’s President Vladimir Putin said his armed forces in Ukraine were “just tearing them – the enemy – apart right now”, after Russia claimed to have captured a string of towns and villages in the east of Ukraine. 
Ukrainian shelling in the southern Russian city of Belgorod killed two people and injured eleven others, regional Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said on the Telegram messaging app. 
Five people were also wounded when a Ukrainian drone hit a car in the village of Glotovo, some 2km (1.25 miles) from the Ukrainian border, Gladkov said. 
The attack on Belgorod was one of many over several days of Ukrainian strikes that Moscow described as election sabotage. 
A Ukrainian drone attack caused a fire at a Russian oil refinery on Saturday, which burned for hours before it was brought under control. 
Politics and diplomacy 
President Putin has claimed victory after early election results in Russia showed he was heading for another six-year term with some 87 percent of the vote. 
Responding to the results, Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called Putin a “dictator”, “sick from power” and “doing everything he can to rule forever”. 
Yulia Navalnaya, the widow of Russian opposition leader Alexey Navalny, who died in a Russian prison colony last month, said, “Obviously I wrote Navalny’s name” on the ballot, after she voted in the Russian Embassy in Berlin. 
Rights group Amnesty International has decried Russia’s attempts “to alter the ethnic makeup” of Crimea by suppressing Ukrainian and Crimean Tatar identities. “These policies appear to be a blueprint for Russia’s designs on other areas of Ukraine it occupies,” Amnesty said. Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula from Ukraine in 2014. 


Skip links 
Russia-Ukraine war: List of key events, day 755 
As the war enters its 755th day, these are the main developments. 
Published On 20 Mar 202420 Mar 2024 
Here is the situation on Wednesday, March 20, 2024. 
Fighting 
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy appealed to Kyiv’s allies to supply more air defences, saying Russia had launched 130 missiles, more than 320 attack drones and almost 900 guided bombs on the country so far this month. 
Russia named Admiral Alexander Moiseyev as acting commander-in-chief of its navy. Moscow fired his predecessor Nikolai Yevmenov amid repeated Ukrainian attacks on the Black Sea Fleet. Ukrainian forces claim to have destroyed more than two dozen Russian ships since the start of Russia’s full-scale invasion in February 2022. 
The Russian Defence Ministry claimed its forces had captured the village of Orlivka in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk region, 9.5km (5.9 miles) from Avdiivka, which Russian troops seized last month. The Ukrainian General Staff said earlier that its forces had repelled nine Russian army attacks in the vicinity of Orlivka. 
Belgorod Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said Russia planned to evacuate about 9,000 children from the border region because of Ukraine shelling. Separately, Russia’s Defence Ministry said air defence units had intercepted 10 projectiles and one missile over the region. 
Politics and diplomacy 
US Defence Secretary Lloyd Austin warned that Ukraine’s survival was in danger as he sought to convince allies at the monthly Ukraine Defense Contact Group (UDCG) that the United States was committed to supporting Kyiv even as Republicans hold up a $60bn funding package. 
Ukraine’s Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba said Kyiv was working to secure “a strong and far-reaching step” towards membership of NATO at the military alliance’s Washington summit in July. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin told the Federal Security Service (FSB), the main successor to the Soviet-era KGB, to help Russian companies beat Western sanctions imposed over the Ukraine invasion. 
Putin will travel to China in May for talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping, the Reuters news agency reported. 
The International Olympic Committee (IOC) said Russians and Belarusians would not join the parade of athletes at the opening ceremony of the Paris 2024 Olympics in July. The athletes are competing as independents without their flags and anthems as a result of Moscow’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine. 
German prosecutors charged an officer in the military procurement agency with attempting to pass secret information to Russia. The German, identified only as Thomas H, has been in custody since August. 
Weapons 
Ukraine’s Commander-in-Chief Oleksandr Syrskyi said drones were the key that would give Kyiv an advantage over “numerically superior” Russian forces. 
German Defence Minister Boris Pistorius announced a 500 million euro ($542.6 million) aid package for Ukraine, including 10,000 rounds of ammunition. 
Canada’s Defence Minister Bill Blair said the country would give more than 40 million Canadian dollars ($29.4 million) to a Czech-led initiative aimed at buying 800,000 artillery shells from third nations for Ukraine. 
Ukraine Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal said the country hoped to have enough ammunition to repel Russian troops on the battlefield starting from April. 
EU foreign policy chief Josep Borrell proposed the European Union take 90 percent of revenues from Russian assets frozen in Europe and transfer them to an EU-run fund to finance weapons for Ukraine. 


Share this story 
Share All sharing options for: Russia’s war in Ukraine, explained 
Russia is bombarding major cities in Ukraine, more than a week into a war where Moscow has faced setbacks on the battlefield — yet seems undeterred from its campaign to take Ukraine. 
Get in-depth coverage about Russia’s war on Ukraine. 
But the incident was a reminder of how dangerous this war in Ukraine is becoming, and how uncertain and confusing things still are on the ground. Russian troops were advancing toward Kyiv, and thousands and thousands are fleeing in advance of a possible siege on the city. 
The Russian military has made advances in the south, and are gaining in the area of Kherson, a port city on the Black Sea whose control is reportedly contested, and Mariupol, on the Sea of Azov. Russian bombardment of these cities has resulted in humanitarian issues, with bridges and roads damaged by the fighting and dwindling access to food, clean water, medicine, and electricity in certain areas. Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city, experienced heavy Russian fire this week, and strikes have heavily damaged residential areas. 
Putin’s attempt to redraw the map of Europe risks becoming the most devastating conflict on the continent since World War II. Already, it is causing an astounding humanitarian crisis: Hundreds, perhaps thousands, of civilians have died, and more than 1.5 million people have fled the violence so far, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, making it the fastest-growing refugee crisis in Europe since World War II. 
The battle for Ukraine began in the early morning hours, local time, on February 24, when Russian President Vladimir Putin launched what he called a “special military operation” into the country of about 40 million. He claimed the Russian military seeks “demilitarization and denazification” but not occupation; attacks shortly followed from multiple fronts and targeted toward multiple cities. 
Ukraine’s resistance has complicated Russia’s efforts to seize the country. Russian forces have not made the progress they likely thought they would at the start of the campaign. The Russian military’s early strategy has perplexed some experts and observers. But the more protracted this war becomes, the more catastrophic it will be. 
This sustained international pressure, and Ukraine’s resistance, may still not be enough to force Russia to end its military campaign. That leaves Ukraine — and the world — in a perilous and unpredictable moment. 
Putin’s war on Ukraine, explained 
Ukraine is under siege 
After months of Putin building up tens of thousands of troops near the Ukrainian border and a series of failed diplomatic talks, Russia is now waging a full-out war on Ukraine. 
Tensions escalated quickly when, on February 21, Putin delivered an hour-long combative speech that essentially denied Ukrainian statehood. He recognized the independence of two breakaway regions in eastern Ukraine where Moscow has backed a separatist rebellion since 2014 and sent so-called peacekeeping forces into the region. As experts said, that was likely just the beginning, setting the stage for a much larger conflict. 
Days later, that larger conflict materialized. On February 24, Putin announced he was launching an assault “to defend people who for eight years are suffering persecution and genocide by the Kyiv regime,” a reference to a false claim about the government in Ukraine. He demanded Ukraine lay down its weapons or be “responsible for bloodshed.” 
Soon after Putin’s speech, reports emerged of explosions around cities, including Kharkiv in eastern Ukraine and the capital Kyiv. The Ukrainian foreign minister called it “a full-scale invasion of Ukraine.” By the afternoon in Ukraine, Russian troops and tanks had entered the country on three fronts: from Belarus in the north, from the east of Ukraine, and from the south. 
The Russian military has targeted critical infrastructure, like airports, with airstrikes and has launched more than 400 missiles, as of March 1. As a senior US defense official said on February 26, “There’s no doubt in our mind that civilian infrastructure and civilian areas are being hit as a result of these barrages.” 
The main battlefronts are in Kyiv’s outskirts; in southern Ukraine, including the major city of Mariupol; and in eastern Ukraine around Kharkiv, the country’s second-largest city. 
“They had maximal war aims,” Michael Kofman, research director in the Russia studies program at CNA, said in an interview posted on Twitter on February 25. “They had a military operation that’s now in progress, first to try to achieve regime change, encircle the capital, and try to overthrow the Ukrainian government, and then a much larger set of pincer movements to encircle and envelope Ukrainian forces. Try to do this quickly and force surrender of isolated pockets.” 
But the Russian army has not been able to completely roll over Ukrainian forces, and some analysts have suggested Moscow may have been surprised at Ukraine’s resistance. Pentagon officials said that, as of March 4, Russia has committed about 92 percent of its combat power so far. Ukraine’s airspace remains contested. 
Samuel Charap, a senior political scientist at RAND Corporation, told a panel of reporters on February 28 that Russia’s military performance has been odd. “In other words, some of the things that I would have expected — like the air force taking a major role — have not happened.” 
“Seems to me there was a lot of war optimism and a sense that the [Ukrainian] government would fall with just a little push,” Charap continued. “And that didn’t happen. I wouldn’t read too much into that about the ultimate course of the war, though. This is still a situation where the deck unfortunately is stacked against the Ukrainians, despite their bravery.” 
Putin himself has called on the Ukrainian army to “take power into their own hands and overthrow” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, a sign that Putin remains focused on regime change. “According to the available intelligence, the enemy marked me as a target No. 1 and my family as the target No. 2,” said Zelenskyy, speaking on the night of February 24. 
Both Ukraine and Russia have suggested they will hold another round of talks in coming days. Across conflicts, there is usually a severe escalation in fighting before ceasefires, as everyone attempts to maximize their leverage. “I think that they want to inflict maximum damage to pressure the Ukrainian government to seek some sort of ceasefire that is effectively a surrender,” said Margarita Konaev, associate director of analysis and research fellow at Georgetown’s Center for Security and Emerging Technology. 
The toll of this young conflict is growing. The UN has said that, as of March 6, more than 350 civilians have been confirmed killed and hundreds more have been wounded; Ukraine’s emergency services puts the civilian death toll at 2,000 people as of March 2. Ukrainian officials have said about 11,000 Russian troops have been killed in the fighting, as of March 6, but American and European estimates of Russian casualties have been substantially lower. The Russian government has reported nearly 500 soldier deaths. Experts said all these statistics should be treated with a great deal of caution because of the fog of war and the incentives both Russia and Ukraine have to push a particular narrative. 
The roots of the current crisis grew from the breakup of the Soviet Union 
Russia’s invasion contravenes security agreements the Soviet Union made upon its breakup in the early ’90s. At the time, Ukraine, a former Soviet republic, had the third-largest atomic arsenal in the world. The US and Russia worked with Ukraine to denuclearize the country, and in a series of diplomatic agreements, Kyiv gave its hundreds of nuclear warheads back to Russia in exchange for security assurances that protected it from a potential Russian attack. 
But the very premise of a post-Soviet Europe is helping to fuel today’s conflict. Putin has been fixated on reclaiming some semblance of empire, lost with the fall of the Soviet Union. Ukraine is central to this vision. Putin has said Ukrainians and Russians “were one people — a single whole,” or at least would be if not for the meddling from outside forces (as in, the West) that has created a “wall” between the two. 
Last year, Russia presented the US with a list of demands, some of which were nonstarters for the United States and its allies in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO). Putin demanded that NATO stop its eastward expansion and deny membership to Ukraine, and also made other demands for “security guarantees” around NATO. 
The prospect of Ukraine and Georgia joining NATO has antagonized Putin at least since President George W. Bush expressed support for the idea in 2008. “That was a real mistake,” Steven Pifer, who from 1998 to 2000 was ambassador to Ukraine under President Bill Clinton, told Vox in January. “It drove the Russians nuts. It created expectations in Ukraine and Georgia, which then were never met. And so that just made that whole issue of enlargement a complicated one.” 
Ukraine is the fourth-largest recipient of military funding from the US, and the intelligence cooperation between the two countries has deepened in response to threats from Russia. But Ukraine isn’t joining NATO in the near future, and President Joe Biden has said as much. Still, Moscow’s demand was largely seen as a nonstarter by the West, as NATO’s open-door policy says sovereign countries can choose their own security alliances. 
Though Putin has continued to tout the threat of NATO, his speech on February 21 showed that his obsession with Ukraine goes far beyond that. He does not see the government in Ukraine as legitimate. 
“Ukraine is not just a neighboring country for us. It is an inalienable part of our own history, culture and spiritual space,” he said, per the Kremlin’s official translation. “Since time immemorial, the people living in the south-west of what has historically been Russian land have called themselves Russians.” 
The two countries do have historical and cultural ties, but as Vox’s Zack Beauchamp explained, Putin’s “basic claim — that there is no historical Ukrainian nation worthy of present-day sovereignty — is demonstrably false.” 
As experts noted, it is difficult to square Putin’s speech — plus a 2021 essay he penned and other statements he’s made — with any realistic diplomatic outcome to avert conflict. It was, essentially, a confession that this wasn’t really about NATO, said Dan Baer, the acting director of the Europe program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace and a former ambassador to the Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. “It was about that he doesn’t think Ukraine has a right to exist as a free country,” he said before Putin’s escalation on the night of February 23. 
This is the culmination of eight years of tensions 
This isn’t the first time Russia has attacked Ukraine. In 2014, Russia annexed the Crimean Peninsula, invaded eastern Ukraine, and backed Russian separatists in the eastern Donbas region. That conflict has killed more than 14,000 people to date. 
Russia’s assault grew out of mass protests in Ukraine that toppled the country’s pro-Russian President Viktor Yanukovych, which began over his abandonment of a trade agreement with the European Union. US diplomats visited the demonstrations, in symbolic gestures that further agitated Putin. 
President Barack Obama, hesitant to escalate tensions with Russia any further, was slow to mobilize a diplomatic response in Europe and did not immediately provide Ukrainians with offensive weapons. 
“A lot of us were really appalled that not more was done for the violation of that [post-Soviet] agreement,” said Ian Kelly, a career diplomat who served as ambassador to Georgia from 2015 to 2018. “It just basically showed that if you have nuclear weapons” — as Russia does — “you’re inoculated against strong measures by the international community.” 
Since then, corruption has persisted in the Ukrainian government, and the country ranks in the bottom third of the watchdog group Transparency International’s index. 
Ukraine’s far-right presence has grown and become somewhat normalized, and there are government-aligned fascist militias in the country. But Moscow has drawn out those issues to advance false claims about genocide and other attacks on civilians as a way to legitimize the separatist movement in eastern Ukraine and to create a pretext for invasion. In his prerecorded speech shared on the eve of the bombardment of Ukraine, Putin said he sought the “denazification” of Ukraine. 
Yet, days earlier, Putin used these sorts of claims as part of his explanation for recognizing as independent the so-called Luhansk People’s Republic and the Donetsk People’s Republic, the two territories in eastern Ukraine where he has backed separatists since 2014. “Announcing the decisions taken today, I am confident in the support of the citizens of Russia. Of all the patriotic forces of the country,” Putin said before moving troops into the regions for “peacekeeping” purposes. 
At the time, most experts Vox spoke to said that looked like the beginning, not the end, of Russia’s incursion into Ukraine. 
“In Russia, [it] provides the political-legal basis for the formal introduction of Russian forces, which they’ve already decided to do,” Kofman, of CNA, told Vox on February 21. “Secondarily, it provides the legal local basis for Russian use of force in defense of these independent republics’ Russian citizens there. It’s basically political theater.” 
It set “the stage for the next steps,” he added. Those next steps are now clear. 
How the rest of the world is responding 
The United States and its allies around the world have condemned Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, and have since announced increasingly tough sanctions, intended to completely isolate Russia from the international community and inflict real economic costs. 
Biden announced on the afternoon of February 24 that the United States would impose sanctions on Russian financial institutions, including cutting off Russia’s largest banks from the US financial system, and on Russian elites in Putin’s inner circle. America will also implement export controls on certain technologies. The United Kingdom and Europe added their own sanctions, imposing the “massive” penalties the West had been warning Putin about. 
The US and its allies have only amped up the pressure since then. On February 25, the EU and US imposed sanctions on Putin himself. On February 26, the US and European countries announced an agreement to cut some (but not all) Russian banks off from SWIFT, the global messaging system that enables most international transactions, which will make it very difficult for Russia to make transactions beyond its borders. (Japan also signed on to SWIFT actions on February 27.) The US and its allies have said they will target Russia’s central bank, specifically its foreign reserves that Moscow needs to help support its currency. The US has continued to add penalties, including joining other countries in closing US airspace to Russian aircraft, and sanctioning more than a dozen oligarchs. 
The United States has said it will not involve troops in any Ukrainian conflict, though more US military aid to Ukraine is on its way and the US has shored up its presence on NATO’s eastern flank. On February 24, the Pentagon said it would send 7,000 additional troops to Germany, and Secretary of State Antony Blinken said on February 26 that he was authorizing “up to $350 million” in additional military aid to Ukraine, including “further lethal defensive assistance to help Ukraine address the armored, airborne, and other threats it is now facing.” 
Such aid, according to a February 26 tweet by State Department spokesperson Ned Price, will be provided “immediately” and include “anti-tank and air defense capabilities.” Other European and NATO countries are also stepping up their assistance, including Germany, which reversed a long-standing policy of not sending lethal aid to conflict zones. 
Russia knows that the US and its partners do not want to commit themselves militarily, and, as Putin launched his invasion, he offered an ominous warning as he touted Russia’s nuclear arsenal: “There should be no doubt that any potential aggressor will face defeat and ominous consequences should it directly attack our country.” On February 27, Putin escalated that threat by putting the country’s nuclear deterrent forces on high alert. 
NATO has vowed to protect its members from any Russian aggression. On February 25, NATO announced that it was activating part of its NATO Response Force — a 40,000-troop unit modernized after the 2014 Crimea invasion — to protect allies on NATO’s eastern flank. “We are now deploying the NATO Response Force for the first time in a collective defense context. We speak about thousands of troops. We speak about air and maritime capabilities,” NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said. 
Yet these are largely defensive measures, which means most of the punishment against Russia will come in the form of economic sanctions. Still, the West is starting to shift from an original hesitancy to impose the most severe costs on Russia over fears of what it might mean for Europe, the US, and the rest of the global economy — and what Russia might do to retaliate. 
A way out of this war is difficult to contemplate as bombs are falling on Ukraine, but the US and its allies are going to have to do careful diplomacy to isolate and put pressure on Russia in the long term — and create incentives for Moscow to stop its assault on Ukraine. The US and its allies are also likely going to have to decide how much they want, or can, support Ukraine as it battles Russia. 
“The real question, I think, is going to come down to what extent the West can and will try to support and supply a long-term insurgency against Russia,” said Paul D’Anieri, an expert on Eastern European and post-Soviet politics at the University of California Riverside. “And what level of success does Russia have in fighting back against? Unfortunately, it seems like the best strategy for peace right now is when enough Russians die, that the Russians decide it’s not worth it anymore.” 
The story of Kate Middleton’s disappearance is haunted by Meghan Markle 
The Kate Middleton mystery, explained 
With new national security legislation, China shows it will never loosen its grip on Hong Kong 
Sign up for the newsletter Today, Explained 
Understand the world with a daily explainer plus the most compelling stories of the day. 
Thanks for signing up! 
Check your inbox for a welcome email. 
Email (required) 
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again. 


Putin warns again that Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons if its sovereignty is threatened 
President Vladimir Putin said that Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons but expressed hope that the U.S. would refrain from actions that could trigger a nuclear conflict. 
Videos 
2 
On Now 
1:26 
Putin warns again that Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons if its sovereignty is threatened 
President Vladimir Putin said that Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons but expressed hope that the U.S. would refrain from actions that could trigger a nuclear conflict. 
Putin warns again that Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons if its sovereignty is threatened 
President Vladimir Putin said that Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons but expressed hope that the U.S. would refrain from actions that could trigger a nuclear conflict. 
On Now 
0:48 
Aftermath of deadly Russian airstrike in Ukraine 
A Russian missile strike in central Ukraine killed several people and wounded 43, including 12 children, Ukrainian officials said. (Mar 13). 
Aftermath of deadly Russian airstrike in Ukraine 
A Russian missile strike in central Ukraine killed several people and wounded 43, including 12 children, Ukrainian officials said. (Mar 13). 
Photos 
9 
1 of 9 | 
Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during an interview with Rossiya Segodnya International Media Group Director General Dmitry Kiselev, in Moscow, Russia, Tuesday, March 12, 2024. (Gavriil Grigorov, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) 
Read More 
1 of 9 
Russian President Vladimir Putin speaks during an interview with Rossiya Segodnya International Media Group Director General Dmitry Kiselev, in Moscow, Russia, Tuesday, March 12, 2024. (Gavriil Grigorov, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service on Wednesday, March 13, 2024, emergency services personnel work at an apartment building destroyed by a Russian attack in Sumy, Ukraine. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
Read More 
2 of 9 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service on Wednesday, March 13, 2024, emergency services personnel work at an apartment building destroyed by a Russian attack in Sumy, Ukraine. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service, an apartment building is seen destroyed by a Russian attack in Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 13, 2024. At least a few people were killed and dozens more were wounded on Tuesday evening as the result of a Russian missile strike on Zelenskyy’s hometown. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
Read More 
3 of 9 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service, an apartment building is seen destroyed by a Russian attack in Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 13, 2024. At least a few people were killed and dozens more were wounded on Tuesday evening as the result of a Russian missile strike on Zelenskyy’s hometown. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service on Wednesday, March 13, 2024, emergency services work to save injured people at an apartment building destroyed by Russian attack in Sumy, Ukraine. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
Read More 
4 of 9 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service on Wednesday, March 13, 2024, emergency services work to save injured people at an apartment building destroyed by Russian attack in Sumy, Ukraine. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service on Wednesday, March 13, 2024, emergency services work to save injured people trapped under an apartment building destroyed by a Russian attack in Sumy, Ukraine. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
Read More 
5 of 9 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service on Wednesday, March 13, 2024, emergency services work to save injured people trapped under an apartment building destroyed by a Russian attack in Sumy, Ukraine. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
Russian President Vladimir Putin is interviewed by Rossiya Segodnya International Media Group Director General Dmitry Kiselev, back to a camera, in Moscow, Russia, Tuesday, March 12, 2024. (Gavriil Grigorov, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) 
Read More 
6 of 9 
Russian President Vladimir Putin is interviewed by Rossiya Segodnya International Media Group Director General Dmitry Kiselev, back to a camera, in Moscow, Russia, Tuesday, March 12, 2024. (Gavriil Grigorov, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) 
Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during an interview with Rossiya Segodnya International Media Group Director General Dmitry Kiselev, in Moscow, Russia, Tuesday, March 12, 2024. (Gavriil Grigorov, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) 
Read More 
7 of 9 
Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures while speaking during an interview with Rossiya Segodnya International Media Group Director General Dmitry Kiselev, in Moscow, Russia, Tuesday, March 12, 2024. (Gavriil Grigorov, Sputnik, Kremlin Pool Photo via AP) 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service, a woman with a child stand in a yard after evacuation from an apartment building destroyed by a Russian attack in Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 13, 2024. A few people were killed and dozens more were wounded on Tuesday evening as the result of a Russian missile strike on Zelenskyy’s hometown. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
Read More 
8 of 9 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service, a woman with a child stand in a yard after evacuation from an apartment building destroyed by a Russian attack in Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 13, 2024. A few people were killed and dozens more were wounded on Tuesday evening as the result of a Russian missile strike on Zelenskyy’s hometown. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service, bodies killed in an apartment building are seen covered in a yard after a Russian attack in Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 13, 2024. At least a few people were killed and dozens more were wounded on Tuesday evening as the result of a Russian missile strike on Zelenskyy’s hometown. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
Read More 
9 of 9 
In this photo provided by the Ukrainian Emergency Service, bodies killed in an apartment building are seen covered in a yard after a Russian attack in Kryvyi Rih, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 13, 2024. At least a few people were killed and dozens more were wounded on Tuesday evening as the result of a Russian missile strike on Zelenskyy’s hometown. (Ukrainian Emergency Service via AP) 
President Vladimir Putin said Wednesday that Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons if its sovereignty or independence is threatened, issuing another blunt warning to the West just days before an election in which he’s all but certain to secure another six-year term. 
The Russian leader has repeatedly talked about his readiness to use nuclear weapons since launching a full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022. The most recent such threat came in his state-of-the-nation address last month, when he warned the West that deepening its involvement in the fighting in Ukraine would risk a nuclear war. 
Asked in an interview with Russian state television released early Wednesday if he has ever considered using battlefield nuclear weapons in Ukraine, Putin responded that there has been no need for that. He also noted that he doesn’t think that the world is heading for a nuclear war, describing U.S. President Joe Biden as a veteran politician who fully understands the possible dangers of escalation. 
When asked for U.N. Secretary-General António Guterres’ reaction to Putin’s remarks, spokesman Stéphane Dujarric said that “all rhetoric that could lead to miscalculation or escalation with obvious catastrophic consequences for the world must be avoided.” 
Putin’s comments appeared to be a message to the West that he’s prepared to use all means to protect his gains in Ukraine. He said that in line with the country’s security doctrine, Moscow is ready to use nuclear weapons in case of a threat to “the existence of the Russian state, our sovereignty and independence.” 
“All that is written in our strategy, we haven’t changed it,” he said. 
In an apparent reference to NATO allies that support Kyiv, he also declared that “the nations that say they have no red lines regarding Russia should realize that Russia won’t have any red lines regarding them either.” 
Lithuania’s foreign minister, Gabrielius Landsbergis, recently lamented that the West too often constrains itself with self-imposed “red lines” regarding Russia. He also welcomed a comment by French President Emmanuel Macron that the possibility of Western troops being sent to Ukraine couldn’t be ruled out. 
Putin noted the statements from Biden and his administration that the U.S. wasn’t going to send its troops to Ukraine. He charged that if the U.S. acts otherwise, Moscow would see the American troops as invaders and act accordingly. He claimed that even if some NATO allies deploy troops to Ukraine, it won’t change the course of the war. 
“If it turns to official foreign military contingents, I’m sure it will not change the situation on the battlefield ... just as the weapons supplies haven’t changed anything,” he said. 
In the wake of recent battlefield gains, Putin argued that Ukraine and its Western allies will eventually have to accept a deal to end the war on Russian terms. 
“It shouldn’t be a break for the enemy to rearm, but a serious talk involving the guarantees of security for the Russian Federation,” he said. 
Putin said that a recent spike in Ukrainian drone attacks deep inside Russia is part of efforts to derail the country’s three-day presidential election, which starts Friday and which he’s set to win by a landslide, given his near total crackdown on dissent and tight control over Russia’s political system. 
Russian authorities reported another major attack by Ukrainian drones early Wednesday. The Defense Ministry said air defenses downed 58 drones over six regions. One of the drones hit an oil refinery in the Ryazan region, injuring at least two people and sparking a fire. Another was downed as it was approaching a refinery near St. Petersburg. 
Along with drone attacks on facilities deep inside Russian territory, Ukrainian forces have launched a series of successful attacks on Russia’s naval and air assets in the Black Sea region with sea drones and missiles. The strikes have crippled Moscow’s naval capability and forced it to limit its operations in the Black Sea. 
Earlier this week, Russian media reported that the Russian navy chief, Adm. Nikolai Yevmenov, was fired and replaced with Northern Fleet commander, Alexander Moiseyev. The Kremlin and the Defense Ministry haven’t yet confirmed the reshuffle, which Russian commentators linked to the latest Black Sea Fleet’s mishaps. 
Ukraine, meanwhile, reported more Russian attacks early Wednesday. 
A Russian strike killed two people and wounded another five in the town of Myrnohrad in the eastern region of Donetsk, about 30 kilometers (about 20 miles) from the front line, according to Gov. Vadym Filashkin. Local rescuers managed to pull a 13-year-old girl out of the rubble of an apartment building. 
A five-story building in the northern city of Sumy was struck by a drone launched from Russia overnight, killing two people and wounding eight, according to the regional administration. 
In Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy’s hometown, the death toll from a Russian missile attack the previous night rose to five, Gov. Serhii Lysak said. He said that 43 people were wounded in Kryvyi Rih, including 12 children, the youngest a 2-month-old infant. 
“Every day our cities and villages suffer similar attacks. Every day Ukraine loses people because of Russian evil,” Zelenskyy said. 


9 big questions about Russia’s war in Ukraine, answered 
Addressing some of the most pressing questions of the whole war, from how it started to how it might end. 
Share this story 
Share All sharing options for: 9 big questions about Russia’s war in Ukraine, answered 
Zack Beauchamp is a senior correspondent at Vox, where he covers ideology and challenges to democracy, both at home and abroad. Before coming to Vox in 2014, he edited TP Ideas, a section of Think Progress devoted to the ideas shaping our political world. 
The Russian war in Ukraine has proven itself to be one of the most consequential political events of our time — and one of the most confusing. 
From the outset, Russia’s decision to invade was hard to understand; it seemed at odds with what most experts saw as Russia’s strategic interests. As the war has progressed, the widely predicted Russian victory has failed to emerge as Ukrainian fighters have repeatedly fended off attacks from a vastly superior force. Around the world, from Washington to Berlin to Beijing, global powers have reacted in striking and even historically unprecedented fashion. 
What follows is an attempt to make sense of all of this: to tackle the biggest questions everyone is asking about the war. It is a comprehensive guide to understanding what is happening in Ukraine and why it matters. 
1) Why did Russia invade Ukraine? 
In a televised speech announcing Russia’s “special military operation” in Ukraine on February 24, Russian President Vladimir Putin said the invasion was designed to stop a “genocide” perpetrated by “the Kyiv regime” — and ultimately to achieve “the demilitarization and de-Nazification of Ukraine.” 
Though the claims of genocide and Nazi rule in Kyiv were transparently false, the rhetoric revealed Putin’s maximalist war aims: regime change (“de-Nazification”) and the elimination of Ukraine’s status as a sovereign state outside of Russian control (“demilitarization”). Why he would want to do this is a more complex story, one that emerges out of the very long arc of Russian-Ukrainian relations. 
Ukraine and Russia have significant, deep, and longstanding cultural and historical ties; both date their political origins back to the ninth-century Slavic kingdom of Kievan Rus. But these ties do not make them historically identical, as Putin has repeatedly claimed in his public rhetoric. Since the rise of the modern Ukrainian national movement in the mid- to late-19th century, Russian rule in Ukraine — in both the czarist and Soviet periods — increasingly came to resemble that of an imperial power governing an unwilling colony. 
Russian imperial rule ended in 1991 when 92 percent of Ukrainians voted in a national referendum to secede from the decaying Soviet Union. Almost immediately afterward, political scientists and regional experts began warning that the Russian-Ukrainian border would be a flashpoint, predicting that internal divides between the more pro-European population of western Ukraine and relatively more pro-Russian east, contested territory like the Crimean Peninsula, and Russian desire to reestablish control over its wayward vassal could all lead to conflict between the new neighbors. 
It took about 20 years for these predictions to be proven right. In late 2013, Ukrainians took to the streets to protest the authoritarian and pro-Russian tilt of incumbent President Viktor Yanukovych, forcing his resignation on February 22, 2014. Five days later, the Russian military swiftly seized control of Crimea and declared it Russian territory, a brazenly illegal move that a majority of Crimeans nonetheless seemed to welcome. Pro-Russia protests in Russian-speaking eastern Ukraine gave way to a violent rebellion — one stoked and armed by the Kremlin, and backed by disguised Russian troops. 
The Ukrainian uprising against Yanukovych — called the “Euromaidan” movement because they were pro-EU protests that most prominently took place in Kyiv’s Maidan square — represented to Russia a threat not just to its influence over Ukraine but to the very survival of Putin’s regime. In Putin’s mind, Euromaidan was a Western-sponsored plot to overthrow a Kremlin ally, part of a broader plan to undermine Russia itself that included NATO’s post-Cold War expansions to the east. 
“We understand what is happening; we understand that [the protests] were aimed against Ukraine and Russia and against Eurasian integration,” he said in a March 2014 speech on the annexation of Crimea. “With Ukraine, our Western partners have crossed the line.” 
Beneath this rhetoric, according to experts on Russia, lies a deeper unstated fear: that his regime might fall prey to a similar protest movement. Ukraine could not succeed, in his view, because it might create a pro-Western model for Russians to emulate — one that the United States might eventually try to covertly export to Moscow. This was a central part of his thinking in 2014, and it remains so today. 
“He sees CIA agents behind every anti-Russian political movement,” says Seva Gunitsky, a political scientist who studies Russia at the University of Toronto. “He thinks the West wants to subvert his regime the way they did in Ukraine.” 
Beginning in March 2021, Russian forces began deploying to the Ukrainian border in larger and larger numbers. Putin’s nationalist rhetoric became more aggressive: In July 2021, the Russian president published a 5,000-word essay arguing that Ukrainian nationalism was a fiction, that the country was historically always part of Russia, and that a pro-Western Ukraine posed an existential threat to the Russian nation. 
“The formation of an ethnically pure Ukrainian state, aggressive towards Russia, is comparable in its consequences to the use of weapons of mass destruction against us,” as he put it in his 2021 essay. 
Why Putin decided that merely seizing part of Ukraine was no longer enough remains a matter of significant debate among experts. One theory, advanced by Russian journalist Mikhail Zygar, is that pandemic-induced isolation drove him to an extreme ideological place. 
But while the immediate cause of Putin’s shift on Ukraine is not clear, the nature of that shift is. His longtime belief in the urgency of restoring Russia’s greatness curdled into a neo-imperial desire to bring Ukraine back under direct Russian control. And in Russia, where Putin rules basically unchecked, that meant a full-scale war. 
2) Who is winning the war? 
On paper, Russia’s military vastly outstrips Ukraine’s. Russia spends over 10 times as much on defense annually as Ukraine; the Russian military has a little under three times as much artillery as Ukraine and roughly 10 times as many fixed-wing aircraft. As a result, the general pre-invasion view was that Russia would easily win a conventional war. In early February, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs Mark Milley told members of Congress that Kyiv, the capital, could fall within 72 hours of a Russian invasion. 
But that’s not how things have played out. A month into the invasion, Ukrainians still hold Kyiv. Russia has made some gains, especially in the east and south, but the consensus view among military experts is that Ukraine’s defenses have held stoutly — to the point where Ukrainians have been able to launch counteroffensives. 
The initial Russian plan reportedly operated under the assumption that a swift march on Kyiv would meet only token resistance. Putin “actually really thought this would be a ‘special military operation’: They would be done in a few days, and it wouldn’t be a real war,” says Michael Kofman, an expert on the Russian military at the CNA think tank. 
This plan fell apart within the first 48 hours of the war when early operations like an airborne assault on the Hostomel airport ended in disaster, forcing Russian generals to develop a new strategy on the fly. What they came up with — massive artillery bombardments and attempts to encircle and besiege Ukraine’s major cities — was more effective (and more brutal). The Russians made some inroads into Ukrainian territory, especially in the south, where they have laid siege to Mariupol and taken Kherson and Melitopol. 
But these Russian advances are a bit misleading. Ukraine, Kofman explains, made the tactical decision to trade “space for time”: to withdraw strategically rather than fight for every inch of Ukrainian land, confronting the Russians on the territory and at the time of their choosing. 
As the fighting continued, the nature of the Ukrainian choice became clearer. Instead of getting into pitched large-scale battles with Russians on open terrain, where Russia’s numerical advantages would prove decisive, the Ukrainians instead decided to engage in a series of smaller-scale clashes. 
Ukrainian forces have bogged down Russian units in towns and smaller cities; street-to-street combat favors defenders who can use their superior knowledge of the city’s geography to hide and conduct ambushes. They have attacked isolated and exposed Russian units traveling on open roads. They have repeatedly raided poorly protected supply lines. 
This approach has proven remarkably effective. By mid-March, Western intelligence agencies and open source analysts concluded that the Ukrainians had successfully managed to stall the Russian invasion. The Russian military all but openly recognized this reality in a late March briefing, in which top generals implausibly claimed they never intended to take Kyiv and were always focused on making territorial gains in the east. 
“The initial Russian campaign to invade and conquer Ukraine is culminating without achieving its objectives — it is being defeated, in other words,” military scholar Frederick Kagan wrote in a March 22 brief for the Institute for the Study of War (ISW) think tank. 
And throughout the fighting, Russian casualties have been horrifically high. 
It’s hard to get accurate information in a war zone, but one of the more authoritative estimates of Russian war dead — from the US Defense Department — concludes that over 7,000 Russian soldiers have been killed in the first three weeks of fighting, a figure about three times as large as the total US service members dead in all 20 years of fighting in Afghanistan. A separate NATO estimate puts that at the low end, estimating between 7,000 and 15,000 Russians killed in action and as many as 40,000 total losses (including injuries, captures, and desertions). Seven Russian generals have been reported killed in the fighting, and materiel losses — ranging from armor to aircraft — have been enormous. (Russia puts its death toll at more than 1,300 soldiers, which is almost certainly a significant undercount.) 
This all does not mean that a Russian victory is impossible. Any number of things, ranging from Russian reinforcements to the fall of besieged Mariupol, could give the war effort new life. 
It does, however, mean that what Russia is doing right now hasn’t worked. 
“If the point is just to wreak havoc, then they’re doing fine. But if the point is to wreak havoc and thus advance further — be able to hold more territory — they’re not doing fine,” says Olga Oliker, the program director for Europe and Central Asia at the International Crisis Group. 
3) Why is Russia’s military performing so poorly? 
Russia’s invasion has gone awry for two basic reasons: Its military wasn’t ready to fight a war like this, and the Ukrainians have put up a much stronger defense than anyone expected. 
Russia’s problems begin with Putin’s unrealistic invasion plan. But even after the Russian high command adjusted its strategy, other flaws in the army remained. 
“We’re seeing a country militarily implode,” says Robert Farley, a professor who studies air power at the University of Kentucky. 
One of the biggest and most noticeable issues has been rickety logistics. Some of the most famous images of the war have been of Russian armored vehicles parked on Ukrainian roads, seemingly out of gas and unable to advance. The Russian forces have proven to be underequipped and badly supplied, encountering problems ranging from poor communications to inadequate tires. 
Part of the reason is a lack of sufficient preparation. Per Kofman, the Russian military simply “wasn’t organized for this kind of war” — meaning, the conquest of Europe’s second-largest country by area. Another part of it is corruption in the Russian procurement system. Graft in Russia is less a bug in its political system than a feature; one way the Kremlin maintains the loyalty of its elite is by allowing them to profit off of government activity. Military procurement is no exception to this pattern of widespread corruption, and it has led to troops having substandard access to vital supplies. 
The same lack of preparation has plagued Russia’s air force. Despite outnumbering the Ukrainian air force by roughly 10 times, the Russians have failed to establish air superiority: Ukraine’s planes are still flying and its air defenses mostly remain in place. 
Perhaps most importantly, close observers of the war believe Russians are suffering from poor morale. Because Putin’s plan to invade Ukraine was kept secret from the vast majority of Russians, the government had a limited ability to lay a propaganda groundwork that would get their soldiers motivated to fight. The current Russian force has little sense of what they’re fighting for or why — and are waging war against a country with which they have religious, ethnic, historical, and potentially even familial ties. In a military that has long had systemic morale problems, that’s a recipe for battlefield disaster. 
“Russian morale was incredibly low BEFORE the war broke out. Brutal hazing in the military, second-class (or worse) status by its conscript soldiers, ethnic divisions, corruption, you name it: the Russian Army was not prepared to fight this war,” Jason Lyall, a Dartmouth political scientist who studies morale, explains via email. “High rates of abandoned or captured equipment, reports of sabotaged equipment, and large numbers of soldiers deserting (or simply camping out in the forest) are all products of low morale.” 
The contrast with the Ukrainians couldn’t be starker. They are defending their homes and their families from an unprovoked invasion, led by a charismatic leader who has made a personal stand in Kyiv. Ukrainian high morale is a key reason, in addition to advanced Western armaments, that the defenders have dramatically outperformed expectations. 
“Having spent a chunk of my professional career [working] with the Ukrainians, nobody, myself included and themselves included, had all that high an estimation of their military capacity,” Oliker says. 
Again, none of this will necessarily remain the case throughout the war. Morale can shift with battlefield developments. And even if Russian morale remains low, it’s still possible for them to win — though they’re more likely to do so in a brutally ugly fashion. 
4) What has the war meant for ordinary Ukrainians? 
As the fighting has dragged on, Russia has gravitated toward tactics that, by design, hurt civilians. Most notably, Russia has attempted to lay siege to Ukraine’s cities, cutting off supply and escape routes while bombarding them with artillery. The purpose of the strategy is to wear down the Ukrainian defenders’ willingness to fight, including by inflicting mass pain on the civilian populations. 
The result has been nightmarish: an astonishing outflow of Ukrainian refugees and tremendous suffering for many of those who were unwilling or unable to leave. 
According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, more than 3.8 million Ukrainians fled the country between February 24 and March 27. That’s about 8.8 percent of Ukraine’s total population — in proportional terms, the rough equivalent of the entire population of Texas being forced to flee the United States. 
Another point of comparison: In 2015, four years into the Syrian civil war and the height of the global refugee crisis, there were a little more than 4 million Syrian refugees living in nearby countries. The Ukraine war has produced a similarly sized exodus in just a month, leading to truly massive refugee flows to its European neighbors. Poland, the primary destination of Ukrainian refugees, is currently housing over 2.3 million Ukrainians, a figure larger than the entire population of Warsaw, its capital and largest city. 
For those civilians who have been unable to flee, the situation is dire. There are no reliable estimates of death totals; a March 27 UN estimate puts the figure at 1,119 but cautions that “the actual figures are considerably higher [because] the receipt of information from some locations where intense hostilities have been going on has been delayed and many reports are still pending corroboration.” 
The UN assessment does not blame one side or the other for these deaths, but does note that “most of the civilian casualties recorded were caused by the use of explosive weapons with a wide impact area, including shelling from heavy artillery and multiple-launch rocket systems, and missile and airstrikes.” It is the Russians, primarily, who are using these sorts of weapons in populated areas; Human Rights Watch has announced that there are “early signs of war crimes” being committed by Russian soldiers in these kinds of attacks, and President Joe Biden has personally labeled Putin a “war criminal.” 
Nowhere is this devastation more visible than the southern city of Mariupol, the largest Ukrainian population center to which Russia has laid siege. Aerial footage of the city published by the Guardian in late March reveals entire blocks demolished by Russian bombardment: 
In mid-March, three Associated Press journalists — the last international reporters in the city before they too were evacuated — managed to file a dispatch describing life on the ground. They reported a death total of 2,500 but cautioned that “many bodies can’t be counted because of the endless shelling.” The situation is impossibly dire: 
Airstrikes and shells have hit the maternity hospital, the fire department, homes, a church, a field outside a school. For the estimated hundreds of thousands who remain, there is quite simply nowhere to go. The surrounding roads are mined and the port blocked. Food is running out, and the Russians have stopped humanitarian attempts to bring it in. Electricity is mostly gone and water is sparse, with residents melting snow to drink. Some parents have even left their newborns at the hospital, perhaps hoping to give them a chance at life in the one place with decent electricity and water. 
The battlefield failures of the Russian military have raised questions about its competence in difficult block-to-block fighting; Farley, the Kentucky professor, says, “This Russian army does not look like it can conduct serious [urban warfare].” As a result, taking Ukrainian cities means besieging them — starving them out, destroying their will to fight, and only moving into the city proper after its population is unwilling to resist or outright incapable of putting up a fight. 
5) What do Russians think about the war? 
Vladimir Putin’s government has ramped up its already repressive policies during the Ukraine conflict, shuttering independent media outlets and blocking access to Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram. It’s now extremely difficult to get a sense of what either ordinary Russians or the country’s elite think about the war, as criticizing it could lead to a lengthy stint in prison. 
But despite this opacity, expert Russia watchers have developed a broad idea of what’s going on there. The war has stirred up some opposition and anti-Putin sentiment, but it has been confined to a minority who are unlikely to change Putin’s mind, let alone topple him. 
The bulk of the Russian public was no more prepared for war than the bulk of the Russian military — in fact, probably less so. After Putin announced the launch of his “special military operation” in Ukraine on national television, there was a surprising amount of criticism from high-profile Russians — figures ranging from billionaires to athletes to social media influencers. One Russian journalist, Marina Ovsyannikova, bravely ran into the background of a government broadcast while holding an antiwar sign. 
“It is unprecedented to see oligarchs, other elected officials, and other powerful people in society publicly speaking out against the war,” says Alexis Lerner, a scholar of dissent in Russia at the US Naval Academy. 
There have also been antiwar rallies in dozens of Russian cities. How many have participated in these rallies is hard to say, but the human rights group OVD-Info estimates that over 15,000 Russians have been arrested at the events since the war began. 
Could these eruptions of antiwar sentiment at the elite and mass public level suggest a coming coup or revolution against the Putin regime? Experts caution that these events remain quite unlikely. 
Putin has done an effective job engaging in what political scientists call “coup-proofing.” He has put in barriers — from seeding the military with counterintelligence officers to splitting up the state security services into different groups led by trusted allies — that make it quite difficult for anyone in his government to successfully move against him. 
“Putin has prepared for this eventuality for a long time and has taken a lot of concerted actions to make sure he’s not vulnerable,” says Adam Casey, a postdoctoral fellow at the University of Michigan who studies the history of coups in Russia and the former communist bloc. 
Similarly, turning the antiwar protests into a full-blown influential movement is a very tall order. 
“It is hard to organize sustained collective protest in Russia,” notes Erica Chenoweth, a political scientist at Harvard who studies protest movements. “Putin’s government has criminalized many forms of protests, and has shut down or restricted the activities of groups, movements, and media outlets perceived to be in opposition or associated with the West.” 
Underpinning it all is tight government control of the information environment. Most Russians get their news from government-run media, which has been serving up a steady diet of pro-war content. Many of them appear to genuinely believe what they hear: One independent opinion poll found that 58 percent of Russians supported the war to at least some degree. 
Prior to the war, Putin also appeared to be a genuinely popular figure in Russia. The elite depend on him for their position and fortune; many citizens see him as the man who saved Russia from the chaos of the immediate post-Communist period. A disastrous war might end up changing that, but the odds that even a sustained drop in his support translates into a coup or revolution remain low indeed. 
6) What is the US role in the conflict? 
The war remains, for the moment, a conflict between Ukraine and Russia. But the United States is the most important third party, using a number of powerful tools — short of direct military intervention — to aid the Ukrainian cause. 
Any serious assessment of US involvement needs to start in the post-Cold War 1990s, when the US and its NATO allies made the decision to open alliance membership to former communist states. 
Many of these countries, wary of once again being put under the Russian boot, clamored to join the alliance, which commits all involved countries to defend any member-state in the event of an attack. In 2008, NATO officially announced that Georgia and Ukraine — two former Soviet republics right on Russia’s doorstep — “will become members of NATO” at an unspecified future date. This infuriated the Russians, who saw NATO expansion as a direct threat to their own security. 
“NATO expansion was deeply unpopular in Russia. [But] Putin did not invade because of NATO expansion,” says Yoshiko Herrera, a Russia expert at the University of Wisconsin-Madison. 
Regardless of where one falls on that debate, US policy during the conflict has been exceptionally clear: support the Ukrainians with massive amounts of military assistance while putting pressure on Putin to back down by organizing an unprecedented array of international economic sanctions. 
On the military side, weapons systems manufactured and provided by the US and Europe have played a vital role in blunting Russia’s advance. The Javelin anti-tank missile system, for example, is a lightweight American-made launcher that allows one or two infantry soldiers to take out a tank. Javelins have given the outgunned Ukrainians a fighting chance against Russian armor, becoming a popular symbol in the process. 
There is more America can do, particularly when it comes to fulfilling Ukrainian requests for new fighter jets. In March, Washington rejected a Polish plan to transfer MiG-29 aircraft to Ukraine via a US Air Force base in Germany, arguing that it could be too provocative. 
But the MiG-29 incident is more the exception than it is the rule. On the whole, the United States has been strikingly willing to take aggressive steps to punish Moscow and aid Kyiv’s war effort. 
7) How is the rest of the world responding to Russia’s actions? 
On the surface, the world appears to be fairly united behind the Ukrainian cause. The UN General Assembly passed a resolution condemning the Russian invasion by a whopping 141-5 margin (with 35 abstentions). But the UN vote conceals a great deal of disagreement, especially among the world’s largest and most influential countries — divergences that don’t always fall neatly along democracy-versus-autocracy lines. 
The most aggressive anti-Russian and pro-Ukrainian positions can, perhaps unsurprisingly, be found in Europe and the broader West. EU and NATO members, with the partial exceptions of Hungary and Turkey, have strongly supported the Ukrainian war effort and implemented punishing sanctions on Russia (a major trading partner). It’s the strongest show of European unity since the Cold War, one that many observers see as a sign that Putin’s invasion has already backfired. 
Germany, which has important trade ties with Russia and a post-World War II tradition of pacifism, is perhaps the most striking case. Nearly overnight, the Russian invasion convinced center-left Chancellor Olaf Scholz to support rearmament, introducing a proposal to more than triple Germany’s defense budget that’s widely backed by the German public. 
“It’s really revolutionary,” Sophia Besch, a Berlin-based senior research fellow at the Centre for European Reform, told my colleague Jen Kirby. “Scholz, in his speech, did away with and overturned so many of what we thought were certainties of German defense policy.” 
Though Scholz has refused to outright ban Russian oil and gas imports, he has blocked the Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline and committed to a long-term strategy of weaning Germany off of Russian energy. All signs point to Russia waking a sleeping giant — of creating a powerful military and economic enemy in the heart of the European continent. 
China, by contrast, has been the most pro-Russia of the major global powers. 
That said, it’s possible to overstate the degree to which China has taken the Russian side. Beijing has a strong stated commitment to state sovereignty — the bedrock of its position on Taiwan is that the island is actually Chinese territory — which makes a full-throated backing of the invasion ideologically awkward. There’s a notable amount of debate among Chinese policy experts and in the public, with some analysts publicly advocating that Beijing adopt a more neutral line on the conflict. 
Most other countries around the world fall somewhere on the spectrum between the West and China. Outside of Europe, only a handful of mostly pro-American states — like South Korea, Japan, and Australia — have joined the sanctions regime. The majority of countries in Asia, the Middle East, Africa, and Latin America do not support the invasion, but won’t do very much to punish Russia for it either. 
India is perhaps the most interesting country in this category. A rising Asian democracy that has violently clashed with China in the very recent past, it has good reasons to present itself as an American partner in the defense of freedom. Yet India also depends heavily on Russian-made weapons for its own defense and hopes to use its relationship with Russia to limit the Moscow-Beijing partnership. It’s also worth noting that India’s prime minister, Narendra Modi, has strong autocratic inclinations. 
8) Could this turn into World War III? 
The basic, scary answer to this question is yes: The invasion of Ukraine has put us at the greatest risk of a NATO-Russia war in decades. 
The somewhat more comforting and nuanced answer is that the absolute risk remains relatively low so long as there is no direct NATO involvement in the conflict, which the Biden administration has repeatedly ruled out. Though Biden said “this man [Putin] cannot remain in power” in a late March speech, both White House officials and the president himself stressed afterward that the US policy was not regime change in Moscow. 
“Things are stable in a nuclear sense right now,” says Jeffrey Lewis, an expert on nuclear weapons at the Middlebury Institute of International Studies. “The minute NATO gets involved, the scope of the war widens.” 
In theory, US and NATO military assistance to Ukraine could open the door to escalation: Russia could attack a military depot in Poland containing weapons bound for Ukraine, for instance. But in practice, it’s unlikely: The Russians don’t appear to want a wider war with NATO that risks nuclear escalation, and so have avoided cross-border strikes even when it might destroy supply shipments bound for Ukraine. 
In early March, the US Department of Defense opened a direct line of communication with its Russian peers in order to avoid any kind of accidental conflict. It’s not clear how well this is working — some reporting suggests the Russians aren’t answering American calls — but there is a long history of effective dialogue between rivals who are fighting each other through proxy forces. 
“States often cooperate to keep limits on their wars even as they fight one another clandestinely,” Lyall, the Dartmouth professor, tells me. “While there’s always a risk of unintended escalation, historical examples like Vietnam, Afghanistan (1980s), Afghanistan again (post-2001), and Syria show that wars can be fought ‘within bounds.’” 
If the United States and NATO heed the call of Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to impose a so-called “no-fly zone” over Ukrainian skies, the situation changes dramatically. No-fly zones are commitments to patrol and, if necessary, shoot down military aircraft that fly in the declared area, generally for the purpose of protecting civilians. In Ukraine, that would mean the US and its NATO allies sending in jets to patrol Ukraine’s skies — and being willing to shoot down any Russian planes that enter protected airspace. From there, the risks of a nuclear conflict become terrifyingly high. 
Russia recognizes its inferiority to NATO in conventional terms; its military doctrine has long envisioned the use of nuclear weapons in a war with the Western alliance. In his speech declaring war on Ukraine, Putin all but openly vowed that any international intervention in the conflict would trigger nuclear retaliation. 
“To anyone who would consider interfering from the outside: If you do, you will face consequences greater than any you have faced in history,” the Russian president said. “I hope you hear me.” 
The Biden administration is taking these threats seriously. Much as the Kremlin hasn’t struck NATO supply missions to Ukraine, the White House has flatly rejected a no-fly zone or any other kind of direct military intervention. 
“We will not fight a war against Russia in Ukraine,” Biden said on March 11. “Direct conflict between NATO and Russia is World War III, something we must strive to prevent.” 
This does not mean the risk of a wider war is zero. Accidents happen, and countries can be dragged into war against their leaders’ best judgment. Political positions and risk calculi can also change: If Russia starts losing badly and uses smaller nukes on Ukrainian forces (called “tactical” nuclear weapons), Biden would likely feel the need to respond in some fairly aggressive way. Much depends on Washington and Moscow continuing to show a certain level of restraint. 
9) How could the war end? 
Wars do not typically end with the total defeat of one side or the other. More commonly, there’s some kind of negotiated settlement — either a ceasefire or more permanent peace treaty — where the two sides agree to stop fighting under a set of mutually agreeable terms. 
It is possible that the Ukraine conflict turns out to be an exception: that Russian morale collapses completely, leading to utter battlefield defeat, or that Russia inflicts so much pain that Kyiv collapses. But most analysts believe that neither of these is especially likely given the way the war has played out to date. 
“No matter how much military firepower they pour into it, [the Russians] are not going to be able to achieve regime change or some of their maximalist aims,” Kofman, of the CNA think tank, declares. 
A negotiated settlement is the most likely way the conflict ends. Peace negotiations between the two sides are ongoing, and some reporting suggests they’re bearing fruit. On March 28, the Financial Times reported significant progress on a draft agreement covering issues ranging from Ukrainian NATO membership to the “de-Nazification” of Ukraine. The next day, Russia pledged to decrease its use of force in Ukraine’s north as a sign of its commitment to the talks. 
American officials, though, have been publicly skeptical of Russia’s seriousness in the talks. Even if Moscow is committed to reaching a settlement, the devil is always in the details with these sorts of things — and there are lots of barriers standing in the way of a successful resolution. 
Take NATO. The Russians want a simple pledge that Ukraine will remain “neutral” — staying out of foreign security blocs. The current draft agreement, per the Financial Times, does preclude Ukrainian NATO membership, but it permits Ukraine to join the EU. It also commits at least 11 countries, including the United States and China, to coming to Ukraine’s aid if it is attacked again. This would put Ukraine on a far stronger security footing than it had before the war — a victory for Kyiv and defeat for Moscow, one that Putin may ultimately conclude is unacceptable. 
Another thorny issue — perhaps the thorniest — is the status of Crimea and the two breakaway Russian-supported republics in eastern Ukraine. The Russians want Ukrainian recognition of its annexation of Crimea and the independence of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions; Ukraine claims all three as part of its territory. Some compromise is imaginable here — an internationally monitored referendum in each territory, perhaps — but what that would look like is not obvious. 
The resolution of these issues will likely depend quite a bit on the war’s progress. The more each side believes it has a decent chance to improve its battlefield position and gain leverage in negotiations, the less reason either will have to make concessions to the other in the name of ending the fighting. 
On the Russian side, an agreement is only as good as Putin’s word. Even if it contains rigorous provisions designed to raise the costs of future aggression, like international peacekeepers, that may not hold him back from breaking the agreement. 
This invasion did, after all, start with him launching an invasion that seemed bound to hurt Russia in the long run. Putin dragged the world into this mess; when and how it gets out of it depends just as heavily on his decisions. 
The story of Kate Middleton’s disappearance is haunted by Meghan Markle 
The Supreme Court’s abortion pills case, explained 
The political battle over Laken Riley’s murder, explained 
Sign up for the newsletter Today, Explained 
Understand the world with a daily explainer plus the most compelling stories of the day. 
Thanks for signing up! 
Check your inbox for a welcome email. 
Email (required) 
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again. 


Russia-Ukraine war: at least 16 killed and 70 wounded in Odesa strike – as it happened 
Day of mourning declared following devastating attack on Ukrainian port city; Bridget A Brink says ‘cruel attack’ shows Russia ‘will not stop’ 
Live feed 
Death toll in Odesa strike rises to 16, with more than 70 wounded 
A Russian ballistic missile attack hit civilian infrastructure in Ukraine’s Black Sea port city of Odesa on Friday, killing at least 16 people and wounding more than 70 in Moscow’s deadliest attack in weeks, Ukrainian officials said. 
The strike came as Russia’s presidential election got under way, with over 100 million people eligible to vote in a three-day process almost certainly guaranteed to return Vladimir Putin to power for another six year term. 
The Odesa region has declared a day of mourning tomorrow. 
Two Russian Iskander-M missiles fired from the Moscow-occupied peninsula of Crimea struck a residential area in Odesa, Reuters reports Oleh Kiper, the region’s governor said on national television. 
“Russia continues to terrorise Odesa … local residents, medical and emergency workers are among the victims and injured,” Andriy Kostin, Ukraine’s prosecutor general, said. 
The medic and rescuer were killed by a second missile after rushing to the scene to treat people hurt in the initial strike, Kiper added. 
Ten people had suffered serious injuries, he said. Residents were rushing to donate blood, causing queues at medical centres. 
A three-storey recreational facility was destroyed and at least 10 private houses, a low pressure gas pipeline and rescue vehicles were damaged in the attack, the southern military command said. 
Moscow has repeatedly denied making targets of civilians in Ukraine, despite the high number of casualties and infrastructure damage inflicted during the conflict. 
In an appearance before Russia’s security council, Putin accused Ukraine of attempting to disrupt the election, which is also being held in the four occupied regions of Ukraine which Moscow has claimed to have annexed, despite its forces only partially controlling them. Putin said Kyiv had attempted a series of armed crimes to disrupt the election, which would not go unpunished. 
Summary of the day … 
It has just gone 6pm in Kyiv, and 7pm in Moscow. Here are the headlines … 
A Russian ballistic missile attack hit civilian infrastructure in Ukraine’s Black Sea port city of Odesa on Friday, killing at least 16 people and wounding more than 70 in Moscow’s deadliest attack in weeks, Ukrainian officials said. Two Russian Iskander-M missiles fired from the Moscow-occupied peninsula of Crimea struck a residential area in Odesa, Oleh Kiper, the region’s governor said on national television. A medic and rescuer were killed by a second missile after rushing to the scene to treat people hurt in the initial strike, he added. 
114 million Russians are eligible to vote in a presidential contest that began on Friday, and will end on Sunday with an almost inevitable victory for president Vladimir Putin. He is running against Communist Nikolai Kharitonov, Leonid Slutsky, leader of the nationalist Liberal Democratic Party, and Vladislav Davankov of the New People party. Two anti-war candidates, Boris Nadezhdin and Yekaterina Duntsova were barred from running by the electoral commission. 
Voting is also taking place in the four occupied regions of Ukraine which Russia claims to have annexed despite its forces only partially controlling the territory. Ukraine has said the election there is illegal. Speaking at a meeting of Russia’s security council, Putin accused Ukraine of trying to disrupt the voting process and people in the border regions with “a number of criminal armed actions”. Putin said the attempts to break into Russia did not succeed. He said the acts would not go unpunished. 
The election has not been without incident so far. Authorities in St Petersburg “stopped a woman from throwing a molotov cocktail at a polling station sign” and in Moscow a woman was arrested after appearing to pour ink into a ballot box. 
Germany’s chancellor Olaf Scholz, France’s president Emmanuel Macron and Poland’s prime minister Donald Tusk met in Berlin. In a public briefing they promised Europe was united and determined in its support for Ukraine, and said they would use frozen Russian assets to purchase more weapons for Ukraine on the world market. 
The regional governor of Belgorod announced on Telegram that one person has been killed by Ukrainian shelling in the Russian city of Grayvoron in the region. Earlier Russia claimed it had thwarted attempts by Ukraine to stage cross-border raids into the territory, while a senior Ukrainian intelligence official claimed that Kursk and Belgorod regions were “active combat zones”. 
Ukraine claims it shot down all 27 “Shahed” drones with which the Russian army attacked overnight, however there were missile strikes in Kharkiv, Poltava and Donetsk regions, and two people were reported killed by shelling in Sumy region. 
Ukraine claims to have attacked an oil refinery in Kaluga region with drones, causing damage. Russian authorities said air defences had shot down the drones, and there was “no infrastructure damage or casualties”. 
Russia’s Federal Security Service (FSB) said on Friday that a Russian national had been detained in Moscow on suspicion of treason and had confessed to assembling and launching drones on behalf of Ukraine. 
The EU is set to agree sanctions on several people seen as involved in the mistreatment and death of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny in an Arctic penal colony, three diplomats said on Friday. 
Odesa’s regional governor Oleh Kiper has posted to Telegram to state that as a result of today’s missile strike, some people in the city are without gas and/or electricity. Between 500 and 800 people are affected. 
Russia has released an image of president Vladimir Putin chairing the Russian security council meeting earlier today. 
While Putin was hosting his meeting, Olaf Sholz, Emmanuel Macron and Donald Tusk were putting on a display of unity in person in Berlin. 
Death toll in Odesa strike rises to 16, with more than 70 wounded 
A Russian ballistic missile attack hit civilian infrastructure in Ukraine’s Black Sea port city of Odesa on Friday, killing at least 16 people and wounding more than 70 in Moscow’s deadliest attack in weeks, Ukrainian officials said. 
The strike came as Russia’s presidential election got under way, with over 100 million people eligible to vote in a three-day process almost certainly guaranteed to return Vladimir Putin to power for another six year term. 
The Odesa region has declared a day of mourning tomorrow. 
Two Russian Iskander-M missiles fired from the Moscow-occupied peninsula of Crimea struck a residential area in Odesa, Reuters reports Oleh Kiper, the region’s governor said on national television. 
“Russia continues to terrorise Odesa … local residents, medical and emergency workers are among the victims and injured,” Andriy Kostin, Ukraine’s prosecutor general, said. 
The medic and rescuer were killed by a second missile after rushing to the scene to treat people hurt in the initial strike, Kiper added. 
Ten people had suffered serious injuries, he said. Residents were rushing to donate blood, causing queues at medical centres. 
A three-storey recreational facility was destroyed and at least 10 private houses, a low pressure gas pipeline and rescue vehicles were damaged in the attack, the southern military command said. 
Moscow has repeatedly denied making targets of civilians in Ukraine, despite the high number of casualties and infrastructure damage inflicted during the conflict. 
In an appearance before Russia’s security council, Putin accused Ukraine of attempting to disrupt the election, which is also being held in the four occupied regions of Ukraine which Moscow has claimed to have annexed, despite its forces only partially controlling them. Putin said Kyiv had attempted a series of armed crimes to disrupt the election, which would not go unpunished. 
Andriy Yermak, the head of the office of the president of Ukraine, has commented on the attack in Odesa today. He said: 
The Russian terror of Odesa is a sign of the enemy’s weakness, fighting Ukrainian civilians at a time when it cannot guarantee the safety of people on its own territory. The regime of terrorism and the terrorist … 
At the end of his speech, Donald Tusk described today’s meeting as “a good new beginning for the ‘Weimar triangle’”, and said the three would meet again in the summer in Poland. 
The “Weimar triangle” was created between Germany, France and Poland after the reunification in Germany in 1991. 
The three men have finished speaking. They did not take any questions from the assembled media. 
Macron has said that Europe is united and determined in its support for Ukraine. Donald Tusk has added they speak with one voice on security, and that they intend to spend money to help here and now. 
Emmanuel Macron is speaking now, and has said the countries will continue to support Ukraine for as long as it was necessary. He has repeated the argument that he made on French television last night in a combative interview, saying the security of the whole of Europe is at stake in Ukraine. 
Scholz says that Vladimir Putin has to know that support for Ukraine in Europe will not ebb, and they will use frozen Russian assets to financially support Ukraine. 
Olaf Scholz has opened the press conference in Berlin by saying it is clear that Germany, France and Poland support Ukraine, but it is also clear that the countries are not at war with Russia. 
He said that the countries would buy more weapons for Ukraine on the world market, and that they would, with partners, build up weapons production in Ukraine. 
Putin accuses Ukraine of trying to disrupt Russia's presidential election with 'criminal' acts 
The RIA news agency has posted a short video clip of Russian president Vladimir Putin speaking at a meeting of Russia’s security council. In it Putin claims that Ukraine has been trying to disrupt the presidential voting process in Russia and to disrupt people in the border regions with “a number of criminal armed actions” 
On Thursday Ukraine claimed that three pro-Ukrainian battalions made up of recruits from Russia had launched a fresh incursion into southern Russia. Putin said the attempts to break into Russia did not succeed. He said the acts would not go unpunished. 
EU set to agree new Russia sanctions over Alexei Navalny death 
Reuters reports the European Union is set to agree sanctions on several people seen as involved in the mistreatment and death of Kremlin critic Alexei Navalny in an Arctic penal colony, three diplomats told it on Friday. 
EU foreign ministers are likely to endorse the sanctions on Monday, the day after the end of a three-day Russian election. 


Russia-Ukraine war: Key developments in the ongoing conflict 
1 of 11 | 
A woman walks outside the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
2 of 11 | 
Ina Karpanko, who lives in Poland, right, reunites with her son Vanya and his grandmother, who is fleeing the war from neighboring Ukraine at the Medyka border crossing, Poland, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole) 
Read More 
3 of 11 | 
Mariana Vishegirskaya walks downstairs in of a maternity hospital damaged by shelling in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. Vishegirskaya survived the shelling and later delivered a baby girl in another hospital. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
4 of 11 | 
A refugee who fled war in neighboring Ukraine sits in front of a tente after crossing to Medyka, Poland, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole) 
Read More 
5 of 11 | 
Ukrainians cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Felipe Dana) 
Read More 
6 of 11 | 
A Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces member holds an NLAW anti-tank weapon, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. Authorities announced a new ceasefire on Wednesday to allow civilians to escape from towns around the capital, Kyiv, as well as the southern cities of Mariupol, Enerhodar and Volnovakha, Izyum in the east and Sumy in the northeast. Previous attempts to establish safe evacuation corridors have largely failed due to attacks by Russian forces. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) 
Read More 
7 of 11 | 
A Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces member hugs a resident who leaves his home town following Russian artillery shelling in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Oleksandr Ratushniak) 
Read More 
8 of 11 | 
Children watch from a train carriage, waiting to leave to western Ukraine at the railway station in Kramatorsk, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Andriy Andriyenko) 
Read More 
9 of 11 | 
A man rides a bicycle in front of a damaged by shelling apartment building in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
10 of 11 | 
Ukrainian emergency employees and volunteers carry an injured pregnant woman from the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
11 of 11 | 
Dead bodies are placed into a mass grave on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022 as people cannot bury their dead because of the heavy shelling by Russian forces. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
Russia-Ukraine war: Key developments in the ongoing conflict 
1 of 11 | 
A woman walks outside the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
1 of 11 
A woman walks outside the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Ina Karpanko, who lives in Poland, right, reunites with her son Vanya and his grandmother, who is fleeing the war from neighboring Ukraine at the Medyka border crossing, Poland, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole) 
Read More 
2 of 11 
Ina Karpanko, who lives in Poland, right, reunites with her son Vanya and his grandmother, who is fleeing the war from neighboring Ukraine at the Medyka border crossing, Poland, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole) 
Mariana Vishegirskaya walks downstairs in of a maternity hospital damaged by shelling in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. Vishegirskaya survived the shelling and later delivered a baby girl in another hospital. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
3 of 11 
Mariana Vishegirskaya walks downstairs in of a maternity hospital damaged by shelling in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. Vishegirskaya survived the shelling and later delivered a baby girl in another hospital. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
A refugee who fled war in neighboring Ukraine sits in front of a tente after crossing to Medyka, Poland, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole) 
Read More 
4 of 11 
A refugee who fled war in neighboring Ukraine sits in front of a tente after crossing to Medyka, Poland, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Daniel Cole) 
Ukrainians cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Felipe Dana) 
Read More 
5 of 11 
Ukrainians cross an improvised path under a destroyed bridge while fleeing Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Felipe Dana) 
A Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces member holds an NLAW anti-tank weapon, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. Authorities announced a new ceasefire on Wednesday to allow civilians to escape from towns around the capital, Kyiv, as well as the southern cities of Mariupol, Enerhodar and Volnovakha, Izyum in the east and Sumy in the northeast. Previous attempts to establish safe evacuation corridors have largely failed due to attacks by Russian forces. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) 
Read More 
6 of 11 
A Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces member holds an NLAW anti-tank weapon, in the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. Authorities announced a new ceasefire on Wednesday to allow civilians to escape from towns around the capital, Kyiv, as well as the southern cities of Mariupol, Enerhodar and Volnovakha, Izyum in the east and Sumy in the northeast. Previous attempts to establish safe evacuation corridors have largely failed due to attacks by Russian forces. (AP Photo/Efrem Lukatsky) 
A Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces member hugs a resident who leaves his home town following Russian artillery shelling in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Oleksandr Ratushniak) 
Read More 
7 of 11 
A Ukrainian Territorial Defence Forces member hugs a resident who leaves his home town following Russian artillery shelling in Irpin, on the outskirts of Kyiv, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Oleksandr Ratushniak) 
Children watch from a train carriage, waiting to leave to western Ukraine at the railway station in Kramatorsk, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Andriy Andriyenko) 
Read More 
8 of 11 
Children watch from a train carriage, waiting to leave to western Ukraine at the railway station in Kramatorsk, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. (AP Photo/Andriy Andriyenko) 
A man rides a bicycle in front of a damaged by shelling apartment building in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
9 of 11 
A man rides a bicycle in front of a damaged by shelling apartment building in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Ukrainian emergency employees and volunteers carry an injured pregnant woman from the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
10 of 11 
Ukrainian emergency employees and volunteers carry an injured pregnant woman from the damaged by shelling maternity hospital in Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022. A Russian attack has severely damaged a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, Ukrainian officials say. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Dead bodies are placed into a mass grave on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022 as people cannot bury their dead because of the heavy shelling by Russian forces. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Read More 
11 of 11 
Dead bodies are placed into a mass grave on the outskirts of Mariupol, Ukraine, Wednesday, March 9, 2022 as people cannot bury their dead because of the heavy shelling by Russian forces. (AP Photo/Evgeniy Maloletka) 
Russian airstrikes hit three hospitals in Ukraine on Wednesday, including two west of the capital and a maternity hospital in the besieged port city of Mariupol, where 17 people were wounded in what Ukrainian officials labeled a “war crime” and an “atrocity.” 
The attacks came amid hopes for mass evacuations of civilians from several besieged Ukrainian cities, including Mariupol, which has been without food, water and power for days and which started burying bodies in a mass grave because its morgues are full. 
Russia, without evidence, accused Ukraine of having chemical weapons labs. White House press secretary Jen Psaki called Russia’s claim “preposterous” and said it could be part of an attempt by Russia to lay the groundwork for using such weapons of mass destruction itself against Ukraine. 
Here’s a look at key things to know about the war: 
ARE CIVILIANS BEING SAFELY EVACUATED? 
Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said efforts were made Wednesday to evacuate some 18,000 people from embattled towns in the Kyiv region to the capital itself. Speaking in Russian, he appealed to Russian soldiers to save themselves and “just go home.” 
Zelenskyy said late Wednesday that about 35,000 civilians have used humanitarian corridors to flee the fighting. 
“We are praying that it will be possible to take people out of Mariupol,” he said. 
WHAT HAS THE AP DIRECTLY WITNESSED OR CONFIRMED? 
In AP video of the airstrike on the maternity hospital, thunderous bangs were followed by the sounds of glass breaking and car alarms going off as smoke rose from beyond a nearby building. Outside of Mariupol Hospital No. 3, a woman holding a small child cried uncontrollably while a Ukrainian soldier bandaged another woman’s head. 
Rescue workers evacuated the injured down a staircase, including a pregnant woman. Her face was pale and she grabbed her belly before she was loaded into an ambulance. There was a massive crater on the hospital grounds and debris everywhere. 
British Prime Minister Boris Johnson said on Twitter that Russian President Vladimir Putin will be held “to account for his terrible crimes.” 
“There are few things more depraved than targeting the vulnerable and defenseless,” Johnson tweeted. 
Pavlo Kirilenko, a regional government official, said 17 people were wounded. 
Zelenskyy said the strike trapped children and others under the rubble. 
Workers in Mariupol on Wednesday continued hastily and unceremoniously burying scores of dead civilians and soldiers in a mass grave dug in a cemetery in the heart of the city. 
With morgues overflowing and corpses uncollected in homes, city officials decided they couldn’t wait to hold individual burials. Forty bodies were placed in the grave Tuesday and at least 30 more were put there Wednesday, though the number was rising so quickly that the total became unclear. 
Some were brought wrapped in carpets or plastic bags. Workers quickly made the sign of the cross after pushing the bodies into the common grave. No family members or other mourners were there to say goodbye. 
Civilians from towns northwest of the capital made their way toward Kyiv on Wednesday through a humanitarian corridor, with firefighters and police helping people carry their animals and belongings across a damaged bridge. 
WHAT ELSE IS HAPPENING ON THE GROUND? 
Russian aircraft bombed Zhytomyr, a city of 260,000 west of Kyiv, hitting two hospitals, including a children’s hospital, Mayor Serhii Sukhomlyn said on Facebook. He said the number of casualties was still being determined. 
“A children’s hospital. A maternity hospital. How did they threaten the Russian Federation?” Zelenskyy asked in his nightly video address. 
Artillery fire continued pounding the suburbs of Kyiv and Kharkiv, the country’s second largest city, on Wednesday. A police headquarters was destroyed in Kharkiv, killing at least four people and wounding 15 others, prosecutors office representative Serhii Bolvinov said on Facebook. He said 282 city residents, including six children, have been killed since the invasion began. 
After darkness fell, Russian artillery again began shelling Kyiv suburbs. 
The World Health Organization said Wednesday it has confirmed 18 attacks on health facilities and ambulances in Ukraine in which 10 people were killed. 
WHAT’S HAPPENING AT UKRAINIAN NUCLEAR PLANTS? 
All Chernobyl nuclear plant facilities are without power and the diesel generators have fuel for 48 hours, Ukraine’s main grid operator said. The state communications agency said the power outage could put systems for cooling nuclear material at risk. The site has been under the control of Russian troops since last week. 
Ukraine’s nuclear regulator said remote data transmission from monitoring systems at Chernobyl has been lost. 
The U.N. nuclear watchdog said it saw no critical impact on safety at Chernobyl because there could be “effective heat removal without need for electrical supply” from spent nuclear fuel at the site. The director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency, Rafael Grossi, tweeted that he would attend a meeting Thursday in Turkey between the foreign ministers of Russia and Ukraine in the hopes of making progress on the “urgent issue of ensuring the safety and security” of Ukraine’s nuclear facilities. 
Ukraine’s energy minister said Ukrainian staff at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant, the largest in Europe, are physically and emotionally exhausted. He said about 500 Russian soldiers and 50 pieces of heavy equipment are inside the station, which the Russians seized last week. 
WHAT ARE WESTERN COUNTRIES DOING TO HELP UKRAINE? 
The U.S. House of Representatives approved a bill Wednesday night that would rush $13.6 billion in American aid to Ukraine and its European allies. Senate approval was assured, probably within a few days. 
The aid includes $6.5 billion for the U.S. costs of sending troops and weapons to Eastern Europe and equipping allied forces there in response to Putin’s invasion and threats; and $6.8 billion to care for refugees and provide economic aid to allies. 
The Pentagon on Wednesday slammed the door on a plan to provide MiG fighter jets to Ukraine, even through a second country, calling it a “high-risk” venture that would not significantly change the effectiveness of the Ukrainian Air Force. Poland had said it was prepared to hand over MiG-29 planes to NATO that could then be delivered to Ukraine, but Pentagon press secretary John Kirby said U.S. intelligence concluded that it could trigger a “significant” Russian reaction. 
Cyprus said it sent its first 165-ton batch of humanitarian aid to Poland for distribution in Ukraine, including food, sleeping bags, tents, shoes and other items. And donations poured in to a collection center in Paris for the people of Ukraine, including baby food and other aid. 
“They’re fighting for us, they are fighting for our freedom. We just have to stop Putin and we have to help them,” said donor Claude De Mol, 60, a German-Belgian woman who came to deliver medicine and gloves. 
WHAT’S THE VIEW FROM INSIDE RUSSIA? 
Russia has cracked down on independent reporting and blocked access to Russian-language news from multiple foreign news outlets. Scattered protests against the war continue in the country, but people in Russia are losing sources of information about what is happening. 
While U.S. and British bans on Russian oi l have increased the pressure on Europe to follow suit, the continent’s dependence on Russia for energy makes an immediate embargo much more difficult. 
Heineken, Universal Music and Discovery joined other large companies such as McDonald’s, Starbucks, Coca-Cola, PepsiCo and General Electric in suspending business in Russia. 
Amazon said it is suspending shipments of goods sold on its website to customers in Russia and Belarus and barring new third-party sellers from those countries. It also said its cloud computing network, Amazon Web Services, would stop allowing new sign-ups from Russia and Belarus. 


The dangerous new phase of Russia’s war in Ukraine, explained 
Vladimir Putin’s war is still raging, signaling a frightening escalation on the ground. 
Share this story 
Share All sharing options for: The dangerous new phase of Russia’s war in Ukraine, explained 
Where to donate if you want to assist refugees and people in Ukraine. 
The scale of the Russian invasion — the shelling of major cities like Kyiv, the capital, and Kharkiv, in the east — hinted at Russian President Vladimir Putin’s larger aims: Seizing control of Ukraine, with the goal of regime change. Though its military is far bigger than Ukraine’s, Russia’s apparently confounding strategic decisions and logistical setbacks, combined with the ferocity of Ukraine’s resistance, have stymied its advance. 
That has not stopped a catastrophe from unfolding within Ukraine, even as it has prompted Western allies to effectively wage economic warfare against Moscow with unprecedented sanctions. 
It will only get worse as this war grinds on, experts said. “Despite the surprisingly poor military performance of the Russian military to date, we’re still in the early opening phase of this conflict,” said Sara Bjerg Moller, an assistant professor of international security at Seton Hall University. 
“This war is about the battle of Kyiv,” said John Spencer, a retired Army officer and chair of urban warfare studies at the Madison Policy Forum. 
Taking Kyiv would mean taking control of Ukraine — or at least deposing the government of Volodymyr Zelenskyy, the Ukrainian president whose defiance has galvanized the Ukrainian resistance. Most experts believe Russia will prevail, especially if it can cut off Kyiv, and the Ukrainian resistance, from supplies. 
Just because Russia may ultimately succeed militarily does not mean it will win this war. A Ukrainian insurgency could take root. The political, domestic, and international costs to Russia could challenge Putin’s regime. The West’s sanctions are throttling Russia’s economy, and they could do lasting damage. Russia’s war has strengthened the Western alliance in the immediate term, but that political will could be tested as energy prices spike and as the war and refugee crisis wear on. 
“War is never isolated,” Zelenskyy said in a video address Thursday. “It always beats both the victim and the aggressor. The aggressor just realizes it later. But it always realizes and always suffers.” 
The war in Ukraine is likely going to become more violent 
Russia’s strategic setbacks have undermined its mission to take Ukraine, but it has only exacerbated the brutal and indiscriminate war, not even a month old. 
The longer and harder the Ukrainian resistance fights, the more likely Russia may deploy more aggressive tactics to try to achieve their aims. “This is what we would call a war of attrition. They are trying to grind down the Ukrainian people’s morale, and unfortunately, that includes the bodies of Ukrainians,” Moller said. 
Urban warfare is particularly calamitous, as civilians who have not evacuated are often caught in the middle of battles that happen block-by-block. Russia’s military tactics in cities — witnessed in places like Syria and Grozny in Chechnya in 1999 — have shown little regard for civilian protection. Spencer, the urban warfare specialist, said even Putin is limited, to a degree, by the rules of war, and so he is likely to claim that civilian infrastructure — like hospitals — are also military targets. 
But urban warfare is, by nature, murky and complex and often far more deadly. Even if Russia attempts precision attacks, it can have a cascading effect — Russia bombs alleged military targets, those operations move, Russia bombs again. “You’re going to use so many of them, the end result is the same as if you just used indiscriminate, mass artillery barrage,” said Lance Davies, a senior lecturer in defense and international affairs at the UK’s Royal Military Academy. 
Even in the early days of this war, Russia’s efforts are already having this effect. “They’re causing tremendous damage to civilian infrastructure,” said Rachel Denber, the deputy director of the Europe and Central Asia division at Human Rights Watch. “They’re taking many, many civilian lives.” Denber pointed to the use of weapons in heavily populated areas, including those that are explicitly banned, like cluster munitions. Human Rights Watch documented their use in three residential areas in Kharkiv on February 28. “You put that in a city like Kharkiv, and if it’s a populated area, no matter what you were aiming at, no matter what the target, it’s going to hurt civilians,” she said. 
The United Nations has confirmed at least 2,149 civilian casualties, including 816 killed as of March 17, though these numbers are likely undercounts, as intense fighting in some areas has made it difficult to verify statistics. 
All of this is exacerbating the humanitarian catastrophe on the ground in Ukraine, as shelling cuts off power stations and other supply lines, effectively trapping people within war zones in subzero temperatures without electricity or water, and with dwindling food, fuel, and medical supplies. In Mariupol, a city of 400,000 that has been under Russian siege for days, people were reportedly melting snow for drinking water. Humanitarian groups say the fighting is making it difficult to deliver aid or to reach those civilians left behind — often elderly or disabled people, or other vulnerable populations that didn’t have the ability to flee. 
Ukrainian and Russian officials agreed to a temporary ceasefire to establish humanitarian corridors out of six cities on March 9, but the enforcement of those safe passages has been spotty, at best. According to the United Nations, on March 9, evacuations did happen in some places, but there was “limited movement” in the vulnerable areas, like Mariupol and the outskirts of Kyiv. Ukrainian officials have accused Russia of shelling some of those routes, and have rejected Russia’s calls for refugees to be evacuated to Russia or Belarus. Russian officials have blamed disruption on Ukrainian forces. 
The fighting across Ukraine has forced about 9.8 million people to flee so far, according to the United Nations. Nearly 6.5 million people are internally displaced within Ukraine, although tens of thousands of Ukrainians were already forcibly displaced before Russia’s invasion because of the eight-year war in the Donbas region. Many have taken refugee in oblasts (basically, administrative regions) in western and northwestern Ukraine. 
Another 3.3 million Ukrainians have escaped, mostly to neighboring countries like Poland, Romania, and Moldova. It is Europe’s largest refugee crisis since World War II, and host countries and aid agencies are trying to meet the astounding needs of these refugees, most of whom are women and children. 
“They need warmth, they need shelter, they need transportation to accommodations,” said Becky Bakr Abdulla, an adviser to the Norwegian Refugee Council who is currently based in Poland. “They need food, they need water. Many need legal aid — their passports have been stolen, they’ve forgotten their birth certificates.” 
How the war in Ukraine began, and what’s happened so far 
For months, Russia built up troops along the Ukrainian border, reaching around 190,000 on the eve of the invasion. At the same time, Russia issued a series of maximalist demands to the United States and NATO allies, including an end to NATO’s eastward expansion and a ban on Ukraine entering NATO, among other “security guarantees.” All were nonstarters for the West. 
But the short answer to why Russia decided to follow through with an invasion: Vladimir Putin. 
From Putin’s perspective, many historians of Europe have said, the enlargement of NATO, which has moved steadily closer to Russia’s borders, was certainly a factor. But Putin’s speech on the eve of his invasion offers another clue: the Russian president basically denied Ukrainian statehood, and said the country rightfully belongs to Russia. 
But Russia’s history of incursions, invasions, and occupations under Putin — including Chechnya, Georgia, and Crimea — have foreshadowed a new, even more brutal war. Seen through this lens, he is not a madman, but a leader who came to power with the lethal siege of Grozny in Chechnya in 1999, who has pursued increasingly violent policy, and who has been willing to inflict civilian casualties to achieve his foreign policy goals. 
In 2014, Russia launched an invasion of Ukraine that culminated in the occupation of the Crimea peninsula in the south. Later that year, Russia deployed hybrid tactics, such as proxy militias and soldiers without insignia, to attack the Donbas region, where 14,000 people have died since 2014. On February 22, in the days before Putin launched a full-fledged war on Ukraine, he sent Russian troops into Donbas and declared two provinces there independent. 
This time, according to former State Department Russia specialist Michael Kimmage, Putin miscalculated the difficulty of taking over Ukraine. Still, as the days go on, this war could escalate to unimaginable levels of violence. “If Putin really is feeling very threatened, it’s possible that he will dig in his heels, double down and take a lot of risks in order to prevent any potential loss of power,” said Andrea Kendall-Taylor, a former intelligence officer who’s now a senior fellow and director of the Transatlantic Security Program at the Center for a New American Security. 
Russia is committing possible war crimes in Ukraine, and Ukrainians are responding with their full military force. They have also developed a strong civil resistance enabled by volunteers of all stripes. “All the nation is involved, not only the army,” said a Ukrainian person who has been supplying medicines. 
According to a conservative estimate by US intelligence, around 7,000 Russian personnel have died so far — more troops than the US lost over two decades of fighting in Afghanistan and Iraq. 
But Russia’s initial setback could lead to increasingly brutal tactics. “We’re looking at World War II kinds of atrocities. Bombing of civilians, rocket fire and artillery, smashing cities, a million refugees; that what looked impossible before now looks within the realm,” said Daniel Fried, a former ambassador to Poland and current fellow at the Atlantic Council. 
How the West has responded so far 
In the aftermath of Russia’s Ukrainian invasion, the United States and its allies imposed unprecedented sanctions and other penalties on Russia, acting with a swiftness and cohesion that surprised some observers, including, most likely, Putin himself. 
“The US and the Western reaction to Russia’s invasion of Ukraine is essentially blowing the lid off of sanctions,” said Julia Friedlander, director of the Economic Statecraft Initiative at the Atlantic Council. “Never in the past have we accelerated to such strong sanctions and economic restrictions in such a quick period of time — and also considered doing it on one of the largest economies in the world.” 
There’s a lot of sanctions, and the US and its partners have only increased the pressure since. President Joe Biden announced on March 8 that the US would place extreme limits on energy imports from Russia — the kind of last-resort option that few experts thought might happen because of the shock to energy prices and the global economy. (Europe, far more dependent on Russian energy imports, has not joined these sanctions.) On March 11, Biden pushed Congress to strip Russia of its “most favored nation” status, which would put tariffs on Russian goods, though it’s likely to have limited impact compared to the slew of sanctions that already exist. 
Among the toughest sanctions are those against Russia’s central bank. The US and European Union did this in an effort to block Russia from using its considerable foreign reserves to prop up its currency, the ruble, and to undermine its ability to pay for its Ukraine war. Russia had tried to sanction-proof its economy after 2014, shifting away from US dollars, but the EU’s decision to join in undermined Russia’s so-called “fortress economy.” 
The US and the EU also cut several Russian banks off from SWIFT, the global messaging system that facilitates foreign transactions. As Ben Walsh wrote for Vox, more than 11,000 different banks use SWIFT for cross-border transactions, and it was used in about 70 percent of transfers in Russia. Even here, though, certain banks were excluded from these measures to allow energy transactions, and EU countries, like Germany, are so far blocking efforts to expand these penalties. 
Experts said there are still some economic penalties left in the toolbox, but what’s already in place is massively damaging to the Russian economy. Russia’s economy is expected to dramatically shrink; its stock market remains closed. And even if these sanctions are targeted toward Russia’s ability to make war, the damage done to the Russian economic system will inevitably trickle down to ordinary Russians. 
The fallout will not be limited to Russia. Biden’s announcement of an oil embargo against Russia has increased energy prices; what Biden, at least, is calling “Putin’s price hike.” And Russia may still engage in some sort of countermeasures, including cyberattacks or other meddling activity in the West. 
How we get out of this 
The US is doing almost everything it can without officially being a party to the conflict. The US has funneled 17,000 anti-tank missiles so far, including Javelins missiles, to Ukraine. On March 16, the US announced $800 million in additional military aid, including thousands of anti-armor weapons and small arms, 800 Stinger anti-aircraft missiles, and millions of rounds of ammunition. 
Biden rejected the US enforcement of a no-fly zone in Ukraine, a military policy that polls surprisingly well among Americans but essentially means attacking any Russian aircraft that enters Ukrainian airspace. Seventy-eight national security scholars came out against a no-fly zone, saying that scenario would edge the US too close to a direct conflict with Russia. 
So far, negotiations between Russia and Ukraine have faltered. Dmitry Peskov, the Kremlin spokesperson, has said that the fighting could stop if Ukrainians agreed to neutrality (and no NATO membership), and agreed to recognize Crimea as Russian and the Donbas region as independent. “Is this a serious offer?” said Fried, the former ambassador who had experience working with Peskov. “It could be posturing. The Russians are liars.” 
Zelenskyy has signaled some openness to neutrality, but Ukraine is going to want some serious security guarantees that it’s not clear Russia is willing to give. 
The US’s absolutist rhetoric has complicated those efforts. Biden, in his State of the Union address, framed this conflict as a battle between democracy and tyranny. Even if a strong argument can be made in favor of that, given Putin’s actions, such language poses challenges for Western diplomats who must forge an off-ramp for Putin to end this war. 
“If it’s good against evil, how do you compromise with evil?” said Thomas Graham, a Russia expert at the Council on Foreign Relations. “Putin does need a face-saving way to back down from some of his demands. But if we have a compromise solution to this conflict, we’re going to need off-ramps as well, to explain why we accept that less than a total defeat for Putin.” 
In a Politico essay, Graham and scholar Rajan Menon proposed a framework for a negotiated outcome that begins with confidence-building measures between the US and Russia, rebuilding arms control treaties. The US and NATO would pledge that neither Ukraine nor Georgia will join NATO in the next several years or decades, though the possibility may be open someday. This would culminate in a “new security order for Russia,” they write. Russian academic Alexander Dynkin circulated a similar idea in the lead-up to the war. 
Gavin Wilde, a former director for the National Security Council who focused on Russia during the Trump administration, says the opportunities for a diplomatic resolution have not yet been exhausted. “The conundrum we found ourselves in quite a lot with Russia is, you have to talk to them. Because lives are at stake. These are two nuclear powers, and you have to keep talking,” he said. 
What a Russian victory would mean for the world 
The world has been galvanized by Ukraine’s small victories in this conflict. 
Still, Ukraine faces long odds. By the numbers, the Russian military budget is about ten times that of Ukraine. The Russian military has 900,000 active troops, and the Ukrainian military has 196,000. Ukrainians may have the tactical advantage and the spirit to persevere, but structural factors weigh in Russia’s favor. 
This all presages what could be a long, drawn-out war, all documented on iPhones. “It’s not going to be pretty,” says Samuel Charap, who studies the Russian military at RAND. A siege of major Ukrainian cities means “cutting off supply lines to a city and making it intolerable for people to resist — to engender surrender by inflicting pain.” 
Still, Russia’s performance so far has been so poor that the scales may ultimately tip toward Ukraine. Mark Hertling, who was the top commander of the US Army’s European forces before retiring in 2013, says that the corruption within the Russian military has slowed down the advance. 
“Unless it’s just a continuous shelling — but I don’t think Russia can even sustain that with their logistics support. They have already blown their wad quite a bit in terms of missiles and rockets,” Hertling said. “They’re having trouble moving, they’re having trouble resupplying. And when you have those two things combined, you’re going to have some big problems.” 
However this plays out, the cruel effects of this war won’t just be felt in Ukraine. It’s truly a global crisis. The comprehensive sanctions on Russia will have massive implications for the Russian economy, hurting citizens and residents who have nothing to do with their autocratic leader. There will also be vast knock-on effects on the world economy, with particularly frightening implications for food security in the poorest countries. Those effects may be most visceral for stomachs in the Middle East; Egypt and Yemen depend on Russian and Ukrainian wheat. 
The unprecedented sanctions may have unprecedented impact. “We don’t know what the full consequences of this will be, because we’ve never raised this type of economic warfare,” Graham said. “It’s hard to overestimate the shock that the Russian military operation has caused around the world and the fears that it has stoked about wider warfare in Europe.” 
The story of Kate Middleton’s disappearance is haunted by Meghan Markle 
The Supreme Court’s abortion pills case, explained 
The political battle over Laken Riley’s murder, explained 
Sign up for the newsletter Today, Explained 
Understand the world with a daily explainer plus the most compelling stories of the day. 
Thanks for signing up! 
Check your inbox for a welcome email. 
Email (required) 
Oops. Something went wrong. Please enter a valid email and try again. 


Ukraine, Russia, and Black Sea (spillover into Romania, Poland, Moldova, Belarus) 
In early 2014, the Euromaidan protests led to the Revolution of Dignity and the ousting of Ukraine's pro-Russian president Viktor Yanukovych. Shortly after, pro-Russian unrest erupted in eastern and southern Ukraine, while unmarked Russian troops occupied Crimea. Russia soon annexed Crimea after a highly disputed referendum. In April 2014, Russian-backed militants seized towns in Ukraine's eastern Donbas region and proclaimed the Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) and the Luhansk People's Republic (LPR) as independent states, starting the Donbas war. The separatists received considerable but covert support from Russia, and Ukrainian attempts to fully retake separatist-held areas failed. Although Russia denied involvement, Russian troops took part in the fighting. In February 2015, Russia and Ukraine signed the Minsk II agreements to end the conflict, but they were never fully implemented in the years that followed. The Donbas war settled into a violent but static conflict between Ukraine and the Russian and separatist forces, with many brief ceasefires but no lasting peace and few changes in territorial control. 
The 2004 Ukrainian presidential election was controversial. During the election campaign, opposition candidate Viktor Yushchenko was poisoned by TCDD dioxin; he later accused Russia of involvement. In November, Prime Minister Viktor Yanukovych was declared the winner, despite allegations of vote-rigging by election observers. During a two-month period which became known as the Orange Revolution, large peaceful protests successfully challenged the outcome. After the Supreme Court of Ukraine annulled the initial result due to widespread electoral fraud, a second round re-run was held, bringing to power Yushchenko as president and Yulia Tymoshenko as prime minister, and leaving Yanukovych in opposition. The Orange Revolution is often grouped together with other early-21st century protest movements, particularly within the former USSR, known as colour revolutions. According to Anthony Cordesman, Russian military officers viewed such colour revolutions as attempts by the US and European states to destabilise neighbouring countries and undermine Russia's national security. Russian President Vladimir Putin accused organisers of the 2011–2013 Russian protests of being former advisors to Yushchenko, and described the protests as an attempt to transfer the Orange Revolution to Russia. Rallies in favour of Putin during this period were called "anti-Orange protests". 
At the 2008 Bucharest summit, Ukraine and Georgia sought to join NATO. The response among NATO members was divided. Western European countries opposed offering Membership Action Plans (MAP) to Ukraine and Georgia in order to avoid antagonising Russia, while US President George W. Bush pushed for their admission. NATO ultimately refused to offer Ukraine and Georgia MAPs, but also issued a statement agreeing that "these countries will become members of NATO" at some point. Putin strongly opposed Georgia and Ukraine's NATO membership bids. By January 2022, the possibility of Ukraine joining NATO remained remote. 
In 2009, Yanukovych announced his intent to again run for president in the 2010 Ukrainian presidential election, which he subsequently won. In November 2013, a wave of large, pro-European Union (EU) protests erupted in response to Yanukovych's sudden decision not to sign the EU–Ukraine Association Agreement, instead choosing closer ties to Russia and the Eurasian Economic Union. On 22 February 2013, the Ukrainian parliament overwhelmingly approved of finalizing Ukraine's agreement with the EU. Subsequently, Russia pressurized Ukraine to reject this agreement by threatening sanctions. Kremlin adviser Sergei Glazyev stated that if the agreement was signed, Russia could not guarantee Ukraine's status as a state. 
Euromaidan, Revolution of Dignity, and pro-Russian unrest 
On 21 February 2014, following months of protests as part of the Euromaidan movement, Yanukovych and the leaders of the parliamentary opposition signed a settlement agreement that provided for early elections. The following day, Yanukovych fled from the capital ahead of an impeachment vote that stripped him of his powers as president. On 23 February, the Rada (Ukrainian Parliament) adopted a bill to repeal the 2012 law which made Russian an official language. The bill was not enacted, but the proposal provoked negative reactions in the Russian-speaking regions of Ukraine, intensified by Russian media claiming that the ethnic Russian population was in imminent danger. 
On 27 February, an interim government was established and early presidential elections were scheduled. The following day, Yanukovych resurfaced in Russia and in a press conference, declared that he remained the acting president of Ukraine, just as Russia was commencing a military campaign in Crimea. Leaders of Russian-speaking eastern regions of Ukraine declared continuing loyalty to Yanukovych, triggering the 2014 pro-Russian unrest in Ukraine. 
Russian military bases in Crimea 
At the onset of the Crimean conflict, Russia had roughly 12,000 military personnel from the Black Sea Fleet, in several locations in the Crimean peninsula such as Sevastopol, Kacha, Hvardiiske, Simferopol Raion, Sarych, and others. In 2005 a dispute broke out between Russia and Ukraine over control of the Sarych cape lighthouse near Yalta, and a number of other beacons. Russian presence was allowed by the basing and transit agreement with Ukraine. Under this agreement, the Russian military in Crimea was constrained to a maximum of 25,000 troops. Russia was required to respect the sovereignty of Ukraine, honor its legislation, not interfere in the internal affairs of the country, and show their "military identification cards" when crossing the international border. Early in the conflict, the agreement's generous troop limit allowed Russia to significantly strengthen its military presence, deploy special forces and other required capabilities to conduct the operation in Crimea, under the pretext of addressing security concerns. 
According to the original treaty on the division of the Soviet Black Sea Fleet signed in 1997, Russia was allowed to have its military bases in Crimea until 2017, after which it would evacuate all military units including its portion of the Black Sea Fleet from the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and Sevastopol. On 21 April 2010, former Ukrainian president Viktor Yanukovych signed a new deal with Russia, known as the Kharkiv Pact, to resolve the 2009 Russia–Ukraine gas dispute. The pact extended Russia's stay in Crimea to 2042, with an option to renew. 
Legality and declaration of war 
No formal declaration of war has been issued in the ongoing Russo-Ukrainian War. When Putin announced the 2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine, he claimed to commence a "special military operation", side-stepping a formal declaration of war. The statement was, however, regarded as a declaration of war by the Ukrainian government and reported as such by many international news sources. While the Ukrainian parliament refers to Russia as a "terrorist state" in regard to its military actions in Ukraine, it has not issued a formal declaration of war on its behalf. 
History 
Russian annexation of Crimea (2014) 
In late February 2014, Russia began to occupy Crimea, marking the beginning of the Russo-Ukrainian War. On 22 and 23 February, in the relative power vacuum immediately after the ousting of Yanukovych, Russian troops and special forces were moved close to the border with Crimea. On 27 February, Russian forces without insignia began to occupy Crimea. Russia consistently denied that the soldiers were theirs, instead claiming they were local "self-defense" units. They seized the Crimean parliament and government buildings, as well as setting up checkpoints to restrict movement and cut off the Crimean peninsula from the rest of Ukraine. In the following days, unmarked Russian special forces occupied airports and communications centers, and blockaded Ukrainian military bases, such as the Southern Naval Base. Russian cyberattacks shut down websites associated with the Ukrainian government, news media, and social media. Cyberattacks also enabled Russian access to the mobile phones of Ukrainian officials and members of parliament, further disrupting communications. On 1 March, the Russian parliament approved the use of armed forces in Crimea. 
While Russian special forces occupied Crimea's parliament, it dismissed the Crimean government, installed the pro-Russian Aksyonov government, and announced a referendum on Crimea's status. The referendum was held under Russian occupation and, according to the Russian-installed authorities, the result was in favor of joining Russia. It annexed Crimea on 18 March 2014. Following this, Russian forces seized Ukrainian military bases in Crimea and captured their personnel. On 24 March, Ukraine ordered its remaining troops to withdraw; by 30 March, all Ukrainian forces had left the peninsula. 
On 15 April, the Ukrainian parliament declared Crimea a territory temporarily occupied by Russia. After the annexation, the Russian government militarized the peninsula and made nuclear threats. Putin said that a Russian military task force would be established in Crimea. In November, NATO stated that it believed Russia was deploying nuclear-capable weapons to Crimea. After the annexation of Crimea, some NATO members began providing training for the Ukrainian army. 
Pro-Russia unrest 
From late February 2014, demonstrations by pro-Russian and anti-government groups took place in major cities across the eastern and southern regions of Ukraine. The first protests across southern and eastern Ukraine were largely native expressions of discontent with the new Ukrainian government. Russian involvement at this stage was limited to voicing support for the demonstrations. Russia exploited this, however, launching a coordinated political and military campaign against Ukraine. Putin gave legitimacy to the separatists when he described the Donbas as part of "New Russia" (Novorossiya), and expressed bewilderment as to how the region had ever become part of Ukraine. 
Russia continued to marshal forces near Ukraine's eastern border in late March, reaching 30–40,000 troops by April. The deployment was used to threaten escalation and disrupt Ukraine's response. This threat forced Ukraine to divert forces to its borders instead of the conflict zone. 
Ukrainian authorities cracked down on the pro-Russian protests and arrested local separatist leaders in early March. Those leaders were replaced by people with ties to the Russian security services and interests in Russian businesses. By April 2014, Russian citizens had taken control of the separatist movement, supported by volunteers and materiel from Russia, including Chechen and Cossack fighters. According to Donetsk People's Republic (DPR) commander Igor Girkin, without this support in April, the movement would have dissipated, as it had in Kharkiv and Odesa. The separatist groups held disputed referendums in May, which were not recognised by Ukraine or any other UN member state. 
Armed conflict 
In April 2014, armed conflict began in eastern Ukraine between Russian-backed separatists and Ukraine. On 12 April, a fifty-man unit of pro-Russian militants seized the towns of Sloviansk and Kramatorsk. The heavily-armed men were Russian Armed Forces "volunteers" under the command of former GRU colonel Igor Girkin ('Strelkov'). They had been sent from Russian-occupied Crimea and wore no insignia. Girkin said that this action sparked the Donbas War. He said "I'm the one who pulled the trigger of war. If our unit hadn't crossed the border, everything would have fizzled out". 
In response, on 15 April the interim Ukrainian government launched an "Anti-Terrorist Operation" (ATO); however, Ukrainian forces were poorly prepared and ill-positioned and the operation quickly stalled. By the end of April, Ukraine announced it had lost control of the provinces of Donetsk and Luhansk. It claimed to be on "full combat alert" against a possible Russian invasion and reinstated conscription to its armed forces. During May, the Ukrainian campaign focused on containing the separatists by securing key positions around the ATO zone to position the military for a decisive offensive once Ukraine's national mobilization had completed. 
As conflict between the separatists and the Ukrainian government escalated in May, Russia began to employ a "hybrid approach", combining disinformation tactics, irregular fighters, regular Russian troops, and conventional military support. The First Battle of Donetsk Airport followed the Ukrainian presidential elections. It marked a turning point in conflict; it was the first battle between the separatists and the Ukrainian government that involved large numbers of Russian "volunteers".: 15 According to Ukraine, at the height of the conflict in the summer of 2014, Russian paramilitaries made up between 15% and 80% of the combatants. From June Russia trickled in arms, armor, and munitions. 
On 17 July 2014, Russian-controlled forces shot down a passenger aircraft, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17, as it was flying over eastern Ukraine. Investigations and the recovery of bodies began in the conflict zone as fighting continued. 
By the end of July, Ukrainian forces were pushing into cities, to cut off supply routes between the two, isolating Donetsk and attempting to restore control of the Russo-Ukrainian border. By 28 July, the strategic heights of Savur-Mohyla were under Ukrainian control, along with the town of Debaltseve, an important railroad hub. These operational successes of Ukrainian forces threatened the existence of the DPR and LPR statelets, prompting Russian cross-border shelling targeted at Ukrainian troops on their own soil, from mid-July onwards. 
August 2014 Russian invasion 
After a series of military defeats and setbacks for the separatists, who united under the banner of "Novorossiya", Russia dispatched what it called a "humanitarian convoy" of trucks across the border in mid-August 2014. Ukraine called the move a "direct invasion". Ukraine's National Security and Defence Council reported that convoys were arriving almost daily in November (up to 9 convoys on 30 November) and that their contents were mainly arms and ammunition. Strelkov claimed that in early August, Russian servicemen, supposedly on "vacation" from the army, began to arrive in Donbas. 
By August 2014, the Ukrainian "Anti-Terrorist Operation" shrank the territory under pro-Russian control, and approached the border. Igor Girkin urged Russian military intervention, and said that the combat inexperience of his irregular forces, along with recruitment difficulties amongst the local population, had caused the setbacks. He stated, "Losing this war on the territory that President Vladimir Putin personally named New Russia would threaten the Kremlin's power and, personally, the power of the president". 
In response to the deteriorating situation, Russia abandoned its hybrid approach, and began a conventional invasion on 25 August 2014. On the following day, the Russian Defence Ministry said these soldiers had crossed the border "by accident". According to Nikolai Mitrokhin's estimates, by mid-August 2014 during the Battle of Ilovaisk, between 20,000 and 25,000 troops were fighting in the Donbas on the separatist side, and only 40–45% were "locals". 
On 24 August 2014, Amvrosiivka was occupied by Russian paratroopers, supported by 250 armoured vehicles and artillery pieces. The same day, Ukrainian President Petro Poroshenko referred to the operation as Ukraine's "Patriotic War of 2014" and a war against external aggression. On 25 August, a column of Russian military vehicles was reported to have crossed into Ukraine near Novoazovsk on the Azov sea coast. It appeared headed towards Ukrainian-held Mariupol, in an area that had not seen pro-Russian presence for weeks. Russian forces captured Novoazovsk. and Russian soldiers began deporting Ukrainians who did not have an address registered within the town. Pro-Ukrainian anti-war protests took place in Mariupol. The UN Security Council called an emergency meeting. 
The Pskov-based 76th Guards Air Assault Division allegedly entered Ukrainian territory in August and engaged in a skirmish near Luhansk, suffering 80 dead. The Ukrainian Defence Ministry said that they had seized two of the unit's armoured vehicles near Luhansk, and reported destroying another three tanks and two armoured vehicles in other regions. 
The speaker of Russia's upper house of parliament and Russian state television channels acknowledged that Russian soldiers entered Ukraine, but referred to them as "volunteers". A reporter for Novaya Gazeta, an opposition newspaper in Russia, stated that the Russian military leadership paid soldiers to resign their commissions and fight in Ukraine in the early summer of 2014, and then began ordering soldiers into Ukraine. Russian opposition MP Lev Shlosberg made similar statements, although he said combatants from his country are "regular Russian troops", disguised as units of the DPR and LPR. 
In early September 2014, Russian state-owned television channels reported on the funerals of Russian soldiers who had died in Ukraine, but described them as "volunteers" fighting for the "Russian world". Valentina Matviyenko, a top United Russia politician, also praised "volunteers" fighting in "our fraternal nation". Russian state television for the first time showed the funeral of a soldier killed fighting in Ukraine. 
Mariupol offensive and first Minsk ceasefire 
On 3 September, Poroshenko said he and Putin had reached a "permanent ceasefire" agreement. Russia denied this, denying that it was a party to the conflict, adding that "they only discussed how to settle the conflict". Poroshenko then recanted. On 5 September Russia's Permanent OSCE Representative Andrey Kelin, said that it was natural that pro-Russian separatists "are going to liberate" Mariupol. Ukrainian forces stated that Russian intelligence groups had been spotted in the area. Kelin said 'there might be volunteers over there.' On 4 September 2014, a NATO officer said that several thousand regular Russian forces were operating in Ukraine. 
On 5 September 2014, the Minsk Protocol ceasefire agreement drew a line of demarcation between Ukraine and separatist-controlled portions of Donetsk and Luhansk Oblasts. 
End of 2014 and Minsk II agreement 
On 7 and 12 November, NATO officials reconfirmed the Russian presence, citing 32 tanks, 16 howitzer cannons and 30 trucks of troops entering the country. US general Philip M. Breedlove said "Russian tanks, Russian artillery, Russian air defence systems and Russian combat troops" had been sighted. NATO said it had seen an increase in Russian tanks, artillery pieces and other heavy military equipment in Ukraine and renewed its call for Moscow to withdraw its forces. The Chicago Council on Global Affairs stated that Russian separatists enjoyed technical advantages over the Ukrainian army since the large inflow of advanced military systems in mid-2014: effective anti-aircraft weapons ("Buk", MANPADS) suppressed Ukrainian air strikes, Russian drones provided intelligence, and Russian secure communications system disrupted Ukrainian communications intelligence. The Russian side employed electronic warfare systems that Ukraine lacked. Similar conclusions about the technical advantage of the Russian separatists were voiced by the Conflict Studies Research Centre. In the 12 November United Nations Security Council meeting, the United Kingdom's representative accused Russia of intentionally constraining OSCE observation missions' capabilities, pointing out that the observers were allowed to monitor only two kilometers of border, and drones deployed to extend their capabilities were jammed or shot down.[non-primary source needed] 
In January 2015, Donetsk, Luhansk, and Mariupol represented the three battle fronts. Poroshenko described a dangerous escalation on 21 January amid reports of more than 2,000 additional Russian troops, 200 tanks and armed personnel carriers crossing the border. He abbreviated his visit to the World Economic Forum because of his concerns. 
A new package of measures to end the conflict, known as Minsk II, was agreed on 15 February 2015. On 18 February, Ukrainian forces withdrew from Debatlseve, in the last high-intensity battle of the Donbas war until 2022. In September 2015 the United Nations Human Rights Office estimated that 8000 casualties had resulted from the conflict. 
Line of conflict stabilizes (2015–2021) 
After the Minsk agreements, the war settled into static trench warfare around the agreed line of contact, with few changes in territorial control. The conflict was marked by artillery duels, special forces operations, and trench warfare. Hostilities never ceased for a substantial period of time, but continued at a low level despite repeated attempts at ceasefire. In the months after the fall of Debaltseve, minor skirmishes continued along the line of contact, but no territorial changes occurred. Both sides began fortifying their position by building networks of trenches, bunkers and tunnels, turning the conflict into static trench warfare. The relatively static conflict was labelled "frozen" by some, but Russia never achieved this as the fighting never stopped. Between 2014 and 2022 there were 29 ceasefires, each agreed to remain in force indefinitely. However, none of them lasted more than two weeks. 
US and international officials continued to report the active presence of Russian military in eastern Ukraine, including in the Debaltseve area. In 2015, Russian separatist forces were estimated to number around 36,000 troops (compared to 34,000 Ukrainian), of whom 8,500–10,000 were Russian soldiers. Additionally, around 1,000 GRU troops were operating in the area. Another 2015 estimate held that Ukrainian forces outnumbered Russian forces 40,000 to 20,000. In 2017, on average one Ukrainian soldier died in combat every three days, with an estimated 6,000 Russian and 40,000 separatist troops in the region. 
Cases of killed and wounded Russian soldiers were discussed in local Russian media. Recruiting for Donbas was performed openly via veteran and paramilitary organisations. Vladimir Yefimov, leader of one such organisation, explained how the process worked in the Ural area. The organisation recruited mostly army veterans, but also policemen, firefighters etc. with military experience. The cost of equipping one volunteer was estimated at 350,000 rubles (around $6500) plus salary of 60,000 to 240,000 rubles per month. The recruits received weapons only after arriving in the conflict zone. Often, Russian troops traveled disguised as Red Cross personnel. Igor Trunov, head of the Russian Red Cross in Moscow, condemned these convoys, saying they complicated humanitarian aid delivery. Russia refused to allow OSCE to expand its mission beyond two border crossings. 
The volunteers were issued a document claiming that their participation was limited to "offering humanitarian help" to avoid Russian mercenary laws. Russia's anti-mercenary legislation defined a mercenary as someone who "takes part [in fighting] with aims counter to the interests of the Russian Federation". 
In August 2016, the Ukrainian intelligence service, the SBU, published telephone intercepts from 2014 of Sergey Glazyev (Russian presidential adviser), Konstantin Zatulin, and other people in which they discussed covert funding of pro-Russian activists in Eastern Ukraine, the occupation of administration buildings and other actions that triggered the conflict. As early as February 2014, Glazyev gave direct instructions to various pro-Russian parties on how to take over local administration offices, what to do afterwards, how to formulate demands, and promised support from Russia, including "sending our guys". 
2018 Kerch Strait incident 
Russia gained de facto control of the Kerch Strait in 2014. In 2017, Ukraine appealed to a court of arbitration over the use of the strait. By 2018 Russia had built a bridge over the strait, limiting the size of ships that could pass through, imposed new regulations, and repeatedly detained Ukrainian vessels. On 25 November 2018, three Ukrainian boats traveling from Odesa to Mariupol were seized by Russian warships; 24 Ukrainian sailors were detained. A day later on 26 November 2018, the Ukrainian parliament overwhelmingly backed the imposition of martial law along Ukraine's coastal regions and those bordering Russia. 
2019–2020 
More than 110 Ukrainian soldiers were killed in the conflict in 2019. In May 2019, newly elected Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy took office promising to end the war in Donbas. In December 2019, Ukraine and pro-Russian separatists began swapping prisoners of war. Around 200 prisoners were exchanged on 29 December 2019. According to Ukrainian authorities, 50 Ukrainian soldiers were killed in 2020. Between 2019 and 2021, Russia has issued over 650,000 internal Russian passports to Ukrainians. 
Russian military buildup around Ukraine (2021–2022) 
From March to April 2021, Russia commenced a major military build-up near the border, followed by a second build-up between October 2021 to February 2022 in Russia and Belarus. Throughout, the Russian government repeatedly denied it had plans to attack Ukraine. 
In early December 2021, following Russian denials, the US released intelligence of Russian invasion plans, including satellite photographs showing Russian troops and equipment near the border. The intelligence reported a Russian list of key sites and individuals to be killed or neutralized. The US released multiple reports that accurately predicted the invasion plans. 
Russian accusations and demands 
In the months preceding the invasion, Russian officials accused Ukraine of inciting tensions, Russophobia, and repressing Russian speakers. They made multiple security demands of Ukraine, NATO, and other EU countries. On 9 December 2021 Putin said that "Russophobia is a first step towards genocide". Putin's claims were dismissed by the international community, and Russian claims of genocide were rejected as baseless. In a 21 February speech, Putin questioned the legitimacy of the Ukrainian state, repeating an inaccurate claim that "Ukraine never had a tradition of genuine statehood". He incorrectly stated that Vladimir Lenin had created Ukraine, by carving a separate Soviet Republic out of what Putin said was Russian land, and that Nikita Khrushchev "took Crimea away from Russia for some reason and gave it to Ukraine" in 1954. 
During the second build-up, Russia demanded a treaty that would forbid Ukraine from ever joining NATO, and end all NATO activity in its Eastern European member states. These demands were rejected. A treaty to prevent Ukraine joining NATO would go against the alliance's "open door" policy and the principle of self-determination, although NATO made no efforts to comply with Ukraine's requests to join. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg replied that "Russia has no say" on whether Ukraine joins, and that "Russia has no right to establish a sphere of influence to try to control their neighbors". NATO offered to improve communications with Russia and discuss missile placements and military exercises, as long as Russia withdrew troops from Ukraine's borders, but Russia did not withdraw. 
Prelude to full invasion 
Fighting in Donbas escalated significantly from 17 February 2022 onwards. The Ukrainians and the pro-Russian separatists each accused the other of attacks. There was a sharp increase in artillery shelling by the Russian-led militants in Donbas, which was considered by Ukraine and its supporters to be an attempt to provoke the Ukrainian army or create a pretext for invasion. On 18 February, the Donetsk and Luhansk people's republics ordered mandatory emergency evacuations of civilians from their respective capital cities, although observers noted that full evacuations would take months. The Russian government intensified its disinformation campaign, with Russian state media promoting fabricated videos (false flags) on a nearly hourly basis purporting to show Ukrainian forces attacking Russia. Many of the disinformation videos were amateurish, and evidence showed that the claimed attacks, explosions, and evacuations in Donbas were staged by Russia. 
On 21 February at 22:35 (UTC+3), Putin announced that the Russian government would diplomatically recognize the Donetsk and Luhansk people's republics. The same evening, Putin directed that Russian troops deploy into Donbas, in what Russia referred to as a "peacekeeping mission". On 22 February, the Federation Council unanimously authorised Putin to use military force outside Russia. In response, Zelenskyy ordered the conscription of army reservists; The following day, Ukraine's parliament proclaimed a 30-day nationwide state of emergency and ordered the mobilisation of all reservists. Russia began to evacuate its embassy in Kyiv. 
On the night of 23 February, Zelenskyy gave a speech in Russian in which he appealed to the citizens of Russia to prevent war. He rejected Russia's claims about neo-Nazis and stated that he had no intention of attacking the Donbas. Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov said on 23 February that the separatist leaders in Donetsk and Luhansk had sent a letter to Putin stating that Ukrainian shelling had caused civilian deaths and appealing for military support. 
Full-scale Russian invasion of Ukraine (2022–present) 
Russian attacks were initially launched on a northern front from Belarus towards Kyiv, a southern front from Crimea, and a south-eastern front from Luhansk and Donetsk and towards Kharkiv. In the northern front, amidst heavy losses and strong Ukrainian resistance surrounding Kyiv, Russia's advance stalled in March, and by April its troops retreated. On 8 April, Russia placed its forces in southern and eastern Ukraine under the command of General Aleksandr Dvornikov, and some units withdrawn from the north were redeployed to the Donbas. On 19 April, Russia launched a renewed attack across a 500 kilometres (300 mi) long front extending from Kharkiv to Donetsk and Luhansk. By 13 May, a Ukraine counter-offensive had driven back Russian forces near Kharkiv. By 20 May, Mariupol fell to Russian troops following a prolonged siege of the Azovstal steel works. Russian forces continued to bomb both military and civilian targets far from the frontline. The war caused the largest refugee and humanitarian crisis within Europe since the Yugoslav Wars in the 1990s; the UN described it as the fastest-growing such crisis since World War II. In the first week of the invasion, the UN reported over a million refugees had fled Ukraine; this subsequently rose to over 7,405,590 by 24 September, a reduction from over eight million due to some refugees' return. 
Ukrainian forces launched counteroffensives in the south in August, and in the northeast in September. On 30 September, Russia annexed four oblasts of Ukraine which it had partially conquered during the invasion. This annexation was generally unrecognized and condemned by the countries of the world. After Putin announced that he would begin conscription drawn from the 300,000 citizens with military training and potentially the pool of about 25 million Russians who could be eligible for conscription, one-way tickets out of the country nearly or completely sold out. The Ukrainian offensive in the northeast successfully recaptured the majority of Kharkiv Oblast in September. In the course of the southern counteroffensive, Ukraine retook the city of Kherson in November and Russian forces withdrew to the east bank of the Dnieper River.[citation needed] 
As of August 2023, the total number of Russian and Ukrainian soldiers killed or wounded during the Russian invasion of Ukraine was nearly 500,000. More than 10,000 civilians were killed during the Russian invasion of Ukraine. According to a declassified US intelligence assessment, as of December 2023, Russia had lost 315,000 of the 360,000 troops that made up Russia's pre-invasion ground force, and 2,200 of the 3,500 tanks. 
Human rights violations 
Violations of human rights and atrocity crimes have both occurred during the war. From 2014 to 2021, there were more than 3,000 civilian casualties, with most occurring in 2014 and 2015. The right of movement was impeded for the inhabitants of the conflict zone. Arbitrary detention was practiced by both sides in the first years of the conflict. It decreased after 2016 in government-held areas, while in the separatist-held ones it continued. Investigations into the abuses committed by both sides made little progress. 
Since the beginning of the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022, Russian authorities and armed forces have committed multiple war crimes in the form of deliberate attacks against civilian targets, massacres of civilians, torture and rape of women and children, and indiscriminate attacks in densely populated areas. After the Russian withdrawal from areas north of Kyiv, overwhelming evidence of war crimes by Russian forces was discovered. In particular, in the town of Bucha, evidence emerged of a massacre of civilians perpetrated by Russian troops, including torture, mutilation, rape, looting and deliberate killings of civilians. the UN Human Rights Monitoring Mission in Ukraine (OHCHR) has documented the murder of at least 73 civilians – mostly men, but also women and children – in Bucha. More than 1,200 bodies of civilians were found in the Kyiv region after Russian forces withdrew, some of them summarily executed. There were reports of forced deportations of thousands of civilians, including children, to Russia, mainly from Russian-occupied Mariupol, as well as sexual violence, including cases of rape, sexual assault and gang rape, and deliberate killing of Ukrainian civilians by Russian forces. Russia has also systematically attacked Ukrainian medical infrastructure, with the World Health Organization reporting 1,422 attacks as of 21 December 2023. 
Ukrainian forces have also been accused of committing various war crimes, including mistreatment of detainees, though on a much smaller scale than Russian forces. 
Related issues 
Spillover 
This section needs expansion. You can help by adding to it. (November 2023) 
On 19 September 2023, CNN reported that it was "likely" that Ukrainian Special Operations Forces were behind a series of drone strikes and a ground operation directed against the Wagner-backed RSF near Khartoum on 8 September. Kyrylo Budanov, chief of the Main Directorate of Intelligence of the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, stated in an interview on 22 September that he could neither deny nor confirm the involvement of Ukraine in the conflict in Sudan, but said that Ukraine would punish Russian war criminals anywhere in the world. 
In September and October 2023, a series of fragments were reported found in Romania, a NATO member state, which were suspected to have been the remains of a Russian drone attack near the Romanian border with Ukraine. 
Gas disputes 
Until 2014 Ukraine was the main transit route for Russian natural gas sold to Europe, which earned Ukraine about US$3 billion a year in transit fees, making it the country's most lucrative export service. Following Russia's launch of the Nord Stream pipeline, which bypasses Ukraine, gas transit volumes steadily decreased. Following the start of the Russo-Ukrainian War in February 2014, severe tensions extended to the gas sector. The subsequent outbreak of war in the Donbas region forced the suspension of a project to develop Ukraine's own shale gas reserves at the Yuzivska gas field, which had been planned as a way to reduce Ukrainian dependence on Russian gas imports. Eventually, the EU commissioner for energy Günther Oettinger was called in to broker a deal securing supplies to Ukraine and transit to the EU. 
An explosion damaged a Ukrainian portion of the Urengoy–Pomary–Uzhhorod pipeline in Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast in May 2014. Ukrainian officials blamed Russian terrorists. Another section of the pipeline exploded in the Poltava Oblast on 17 June 2014, one day after Russia limited the supply of gas to Ukrainian customers due to non-payment. Ukraine's Interior Minister Arsen Avakov said the following day that the explosion had been caused by a bomb. 
In 2015, Russian state media reported that Russia planned to completely abandon gas supplies to Europe through Ukraine after 2018. Russia's state-owned energy giant Gazprom had already substantially reduced the volumes of gas transited across Ukraine, and expressed its intention to reduce the level further by means of transit-diversification pipelines (Turkish Stream, Nord Stream, etc.). Gazprom and Ukraine agreed to a five-year deal on Russian gas transit to Europe at the end of 2019. 
In 2020, the TurkStream natural gas pipeline running from Russia to Turkey changed the regional gas flows in South-East Europe by diverting the transit through Ukraine and the Trans Balkan Pipeline system. 
In May 2021, the Biden administration waived Trump's CAATSA sanctions on the company behind Russia's Nord Stream 2 gas pipeline to Germany. Ukrainian President Zelenskyy said he was "surprised" and "disappointed" by Joe Biden's decision. In July 2021, the U.S. urged Ukraine not to criticise a forthcoming agreement with Germany over the pipeline. 
In July 2021, Biden and German Chancellor Angela Merkel concluded a deal that the U.S. might trigger sanctions if Russia used Nord Stream as a "political weapon". The deal aimed to prevent Poland and Ukraine from being cut off from Russian gas supplies. Ukraine will get a $50 million loan for green technology until 2024 and Germany will set up a billion dollar fund to promote Ukraine's transition to green energy to compensate for the loss of the gas-transit fees. The contract for transiting Russian gas through Ukraine will be prolonged until 2034, if the Russian government agrees. 
In August 2021, Zelenskyy warned that the Nord Stream 2 natural gas pipeline between Russia and Germany was "a dangerous weapon, not only for Ukraine but for the whole of Europe." In September 2021, Ukraine's Naftogaz CEO Yuriy Vitrenko accused Russia of using natural gas as a "geopolitical weapon". Vitrenko stated that "A joint statement from the United States and Germany said that if the Kremlin used gas as a weapon, there would be an appropriate response. We are now waiting for the imposition of sanctions on a 100% subsidiary of Gazprom, the operator of Nord Stream 2." 
Hybrid warfare 
The Russo-Ukrainian conflict has also included elements of hybrid warfare using non-traditional means. Cyberwarfare has been used by Russia in operations including successful attacks on the Ukrainian power grid in December 2015 and in December 2016, which was the first successful cyber attack on a power grid, and the Mass hacker supply-chain attack in June 2017, which the US claimed was the largest known cyber attack. In retaliation, Ukrainian operations have included the Surkov Leaks in October 2016 which released 2,337 e-mails in relation to Russian plans for seizing Crimea from Ukraine and fomenting separatist unrest in Donbas. The Russian information war against Ukraine has been another front of hybrid warfare waged by Russia. 
Russian propaganda and disinformation campaigns 
False stories have been used to provoke public outrage during the war. In April 2014, Russian news channels Russia-1 and NTV showed a man saying he was attacked by a fascist Ukrainian gang on one channel and on the other channel saying he was funding the training of right-wing anti-Russia radicals. A third segment portrayed the man as a neo-Nazi surgeon. In May 2014, Russia-1 aired a story about Ukrainian atrocities using footage of a 2012 Russian operation in North Caucasus. In the same month, the Russian news network Life presented a 2013 photograph of a wounded child in Syria as a victim of Ukrainian troops who had just retaken Donetsk International Airport. 
In June 2014, several Russian state news outlets reported that Ukraine was using white phosphorus using 2004 footage of white phosphorus being used by the United States in Iraq. In July 2014, Channel One Russia broadcast an interview with a woman who said that a 3-year-old boy who spoke Russian was crucified by Ukrainian nationalists in a fictitious square in Sloviansk that turned out to be false. 
On 26 February 2020, Vladislav Surkov, who has previously served as Presidential Executive Office's personal adviser of Putin on relationships with Ukraine, gave an interview to Aktualnyie kommentarii where he acknowledged that he was primarily involved with Donbas and Ukraine and claimed that "Ukraine does not exist. There is Ukrainianness, that is, a special brain activity disorder... Such a bloody foreign view. Dusk instead of a country. There is borsch, Bandera, and bandura, but there is no nationality... Forcing them to a fraternal attitude towards Russians is the only method that has proven to be effective in Ukrainianness-oriented activities". 
In 2022, Russian state media told stories of genocide and mass graves full of ethnic Russians in eastern Ukraine. One set of graves outside Luhansk was dug when intense fighting in 2014 cut off the electricity in the local morgue. Amnesty International investigated 2014 Russian claims of mass graves filled with hundreds of bodies and instead found isolated incidents of extrajudicial executions by both sides. The Russian censorship apparatus Roskomnadzor ordered the country's media to employ information only from Russian state sources or face fines and blocks, and ordered media and schools to describe the war as a "special military operation". On 4 March 2022, Putin signed into law a bill introducing prison sentences of up to 15 years for those who publish "fake news" about the Russian military and its operations, leading to some media outlets to stop reporting on Ukraine. Russia's opposition politician Alexei Navalny said the "monstrosity of lies" in the Russian state media "is unimaginable. And, unfortunately, so is its persuasiveness for those who have no access to alternative information." He tweeted that "warmongers" among Russian state media personalities "should be treated as war criminals. From the editors-in-chief to the talk show hosts to the news editors, [they] should be sanctioned now and tried someday." 
Putin and Russian media have described the government of Ukraine as being led by neo-Nazis persecuting ethnic Russians who are in need of protection by Russia, despite Ukraine's President Zelenskyy being Jewish. According to journalist Natalia Antonova, "Russia's present-day war of aggression is refashioned by propaganda into a direct continuation of the legacy of the millions of Russian soldiers who died to stop" Nazi Germany in World War II. Ukraine's rejection of the adoption of Russia-initiated General Assembly resolutions on combating the glorification of Nazism, the latest iteration of which is General Assembly Resolution A/C.3/76/L.57/Rev.1 on Combating Glorification of Nazism, Neo-Nazism and other Practices that Contribute to Fueling Contemporary Forms of Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance, serve to present Ukraine as a pro-Nazi state, and indeed likely forms the basis for Russia's claims, with the only other state rejecting the adoption of the resolution being the US. The Deputy US Representative for ECOSOC describes such resolutions as "thinly veiled attempts to legitimize Russian disinformation campaigns denigrating neighboring nations and promoting the distorted Soviet narrative of much of contemporary European history, using the cynical guise of halting Nazi glorification". 
Dmitry Medvedev, deputy chairman of the Security Council of Russia and former Russian president, publicly wrote that "Ukraine is NOT a country, but artificially collected territories" and that Ukrainian "is NOT a language" but a "mongrel dialect" of Russian. Medvedev has also said that Ukraine should not exist in any form and that Russia will continue to wage war against any independent Ukrainian state. Moreover, Medvedev claimed in July 2023 that Russia would have had to use a nuclear weapon if 2023 Ukrainian counteroffensive was a success. According to Medvedev, the "existence of Ukraine is fatally dangerous for Ukrainians and that they will understand that life in a large common state is better than death. Their deaths and the deaths of their loved ones. And the sooner Ukrainians realize this, the better". On 22 February 2024, Medvedev described the future plans of Russia in the Russo-Ukrainian War when he claimed that the Russian Army will go further into Ukraine, taking the southern city of Odesa and may again push on to the Ukrainian capital Kyiv, and stated that "Where should we stop? I don't know". For his claims Medvedev has been described as "Russian rashist (Russian fascist)" by Ukrainian and American media. 
NAFO (North Atlantic Fella Organization), a loose cadre of online shitposters vowing to fight Russian disinformation generally identified by cartoon Shiba Inu dogs in social media, gained notoriety after June 2022, in the wake of a Twitter quarrel with Russian diplomat Mikhail Ulyanov. 
In February 2024, Putin claimed that the Russo-Ukrainian War has the "elements of a civil war" and that the "Russian people will be reunited", while the Ukrainian Orthodox Church (a branch of the Russian Orthodox Church, which mostly supports the Russian invasion of Ukraine and mandatory publicly pray for military victory over Ukraine) "brings together our souls". Nevertheless, in the official governmental website of Ukraine it is stated that the Ukrainians and Russians are not "one nation" and that the Ukrainians identify themselves as an independent nation. A poll conducted in April 2022 by "Rating" found that the vast majority (91%) of Ukrainians (excluding the Russian-occupied territories of Ukraine) do not support the thesis that "Russians and Ukrainians are one people". 
Russia–NATO relations 
In his speech justifying the invasion of Ukraine, Putin falsely claimed that NATO military infrastructure was being built up inside Ukraine and was a threat to Russia. Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov characterized the conflict as a proxy war started by NATO. He said: "We don't think we're at war with NATO ... Unfortunately, NATO believes it is at war with Russia". NATO says it is not at war with Russia; its official policy is that it does not seek confrontation, but rather its members support Ukraine in "its right to self-defense, as enshrined in the UN Charter". NATO and Russia had co-operated until Russia annexed Crimea. Former CIA director Leon Panetta told the ABC that the U.S. is 'without question' involved in a proxy war with Russia. 
Russian military aircraft flying over the Baltic and Black Seas often do not indicate their position or communicate with air traffic controllers, thus posing a potential risk to civilian airliners. NATO aircraft scrambled many times to track and intercept these aircraft near alliance airspace. The Russian aircraft intercepted never entered NATO airspace, and the interceptions were conducted in a safe and routine manner. 
Reactions to the Russian annexation of Crimea 
Ukrainian response 
Interim Ukrainian President Oleksandr Turchynov accused Russia of "provoking a conflict" by backing the seizure of the Crimean parliament building and other government offices on the Crimean peninsula. He compared Russia's military actions to the 2008 Russo-Georgian War, when Russian troops occupied parts of the Republic of Georgia and the breakaway enclaves of Abkhazia and South Ossetia were established under the control of Russian-backed administrations. He called on Putin to withdraw Russian troops from Crimea and stated that Ukraine will "preserve its territory" and "defend its independence". On 1 March, he warned, "Military intervention would be the beginning of war and the end of any relations between Ukraine and Russia." On 1 March, Acting President Oleksandr Turchynov placed the Armed Forces of Ukraine on full alert and combat readiness. 
NATO and United States military response 
On 4 March 2014, the United States pledged $1 billion in aid to Ukraine. Russia's actions increased tensions in nearby countries historically within its sphere of influence, particularly the Baltic and Moldova. All have large Russian-speaking populations, and Russian troops are stationed in the breakaway Moldovan territory of Transnistria. Some devoted resources to increasing defensive capabilities, and many requested increased support from the U.S. and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, which they had joined in recent years. The conflict "reinvigorated" NATO, which had been created to face the Soviet Union, but had devoted more resources to "expeditionary missions" in recent years. 
In addition to diplomatic support in its conflict with Russia, the U.S. provided Ukraine with US$1.5 billion in military aid during the 2010s. In 2018 the U.S. House of Representatives passed a provision blocking any training of Azov Battalion of the Ukrainian National Guard by American forces. In previous years, between 2014 and 2017, the U.S. House of Representatives passed amendments banning support of Azov, but due to pressure from the Pentagon, the amendments were quietly lifted. 
Financial markets 
The initial reaction to the escalation of tensions in Crimea caused the Russian and European stock market to tumble. The intervention caused the Swiss franc to climb to a 2-year high against the dollar and 1-year high against the Euro. The Euro and the US dollar both rose, as did the Australian dollar. The Russian stock market declined by more than 10 percent, while the Russian ruble hit all-time lows against the US dollar and the Euro. The Russian central bank hiked interest rates and intervened in the foreign exchange markets to the tune of $12 billion[clarification needed] to try to stabilize its currency. Prices for wheat and grain rose, with Ukraine being a major exporter of both crops. 
Later in March 2014, the reaction of the financial markets to the Crimea annexation was surprisingly mellow, with global financial markets rising immediately after the referendum held in Crimea, one explanation being that the sanctions were already priced in following the earlier Russian incursion. Other observers considered that the positive reaction of the global financial markets on Monday 17 March 2014, after the announcement of sanctions against Russia by the EU and the US, revealed that these sanctions were too weak to hurt Russia. In early August 2014, the German DAX was down by 6 percent for the year, and 11 percent since June, over concerns Russia, Germany's 13th biggest trade partner, would retaliate against sanctions. 
Reactions to the war in Donbas 
Ukrainian public opinion 
A poll of the Ukrainian public, excluding Russian-annexed Crimea, was taken by the International Republican Institute from 12 to 25 September 2014. 89% of those polled opposed 2014 Russian military intervention in Ukraine. As broken down by region, 78% of those polled from Eastern Ukraine (including Dnipropetrovsk Oblast) opposed said intervention, along with 89% in Southern Ukraine, 93% in Central Ukraine, and 99% in Western Ukraine. As broken down by native language, 79% of Russian speakers and 95% of Ukrainian speakers opposed the intervention. 80% of those polled said the country should remain a unitary country. 
A poll of the Crimean public in Russian-annexed Crimea was taken by the Ukrainian branch of Germany's biggest market research organization, GfK, on 16–22 January 2015. According to its results: "Eighty-two percent of those polled said they fully supported Crimea's inclusion in Russia, and another 11 percent expressed partial support. Only 4 percent spoke out against it." 
A joint poll conducted by Levada and the Kyiv International Institute of Sociology from September to October 2020 found that in the breakaway regions controlled by the DPR/LPR, just over half of the respondents wanted to join Russia (either with or without some autonomous status) while less than one-tenth wanted independence and 12% wanted reintegration into Ukraine. It contrasted with respondents in Kyiv-controlled Donbas, where a vast majority felt the separatist regions should be returned to Ukraine. According to results from Levada in January 2022, roughly 70% of those in the breakaway regions said their territories should become part of the Russian Federation. 
Russian public opinion 
An August 2014 survey by the Levada Centre reported that only 13% of those Russians polled would support the Russian government in an open war with Ukraine. Street protests against the war in Ukraine arose in Russia. Notable protests first occurred in March and large protests occurred in September when "tens of thousands" protested the war in Ukraine with a peace march in downtown Moscow on Sunday, 21 September 2014, "under heavy police supervision". 
Reactions to the Russian invasion of Ukraine 
Ukrainian public opinion 
In March 2022, a week after the Russian invasion of Ukraine, 98% of Ukrainians – including 82% of ethnic Russians living in Ukraine – said they did not believe that any part of Ukraine was rightfully part of Russia, according to Lord Ashcroft's polls which did not include Crimea and the separatist-controlled part of Donbas. 97% of Ukrainians said they had an unfavourable view of Russian President Vladimir Putin, with a further 94% saying they had an unfavourable view of the Russian Armed Forces. 
At the end of 2021, 75% of Ukrainians said they had a positive attitude toward ordinary Russians, while in May 2022, 82% of Ukrainians said they had a negative attitude toward ordinary Russians. 
Russian public opinion 
An April 2022 survey by the Levada Centre reported that approximately 74% of the Russians polled supported the "special military operation" in Ukraine, suggesting that Russian public opinion has shifted considerably since 2014. According to some sources, a reason many Russians supported the "special military operation" has to do with the propaganda and disinformation. In addition, it has been suggested that some respondents did not want to answer pollsters' questions for fear of negative consequences. At the end of March, a poll conducted in Russia by the Levada Center concluded the following: When asked why they think the military operation is taking place, respondents said it was to protect and defend civilians, ethnic Russians or Russian speakers in Ukraine (43%), to prevent an attack on Russia (25%), to get rid of nationalists and "denazify" Ukraine (21%), and to incorporate Ukraine or the Donbas region into Russia (3%)." According to polls, the Russian President's rating rose from 71% on the eve of the invasion to 82% in March 2023. 
The Kremlin's analysis concluded that public support for the war was broad but not deep, and that most Russians would accept anything Putin would call a victory. In September 2023, the head of the VTsIOM state pollster Valery Fyodorov said in an interview that only 10-15% of Russians actively supported the war, and that "most Russians are not demanding the conquest of Kyiv or Odesa." 
United States 
On 28 April 2022, US President Joe Biden asked Congress for an additional $33 billion to assist Ukraine, including $20 billion to provide weapons to Ukraine. On 5 May, Ukraine's Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal announced that Ukraine had received more than $12 billion worth of weapons and financial aid from Western countries since the start of Russia's invasion on 24 February. On 21 May 2022, the United States passed legislation providing $40 billion in new military and humanitarian foreign aid to Ukraine, marking a historically large commitment of funds. In August 2022, U.S. defense spending to counter the Russian war effort exceeded the first 5 years of war costs in Afghanistan. The Washington Post reported that new U.S. weapons delivered to the Ukrainian war front suggest a closer combat scenario with more casualties. The United States looks to build "enduring strength in Ukraine" with increased arms shipments and a record-breaking $3 billion military aid package. 
On 22 April 2022, professor Timothy D. Snyder published an article in The New York Times Magazine where he wrote that "we have tended to overlook the central example of fascism's revival, which is the Putin regime in the Russian Federation". On the wider regime, Snyder writes that "[p]rominent Russian fascists are given access to mass media during wars, including this one. Members of the Russian elite, above all Putin himself, rely increasingly on fascist concepts", and states that "Putin's very justification of the war in Ukraine [...] represents a Christian form of fascism." 
Russian military suppliers 
After expending large amounts of heavy weapons and munitions over months, the Russian Federation received combat drones, loitering munitions, and large amounts of artillery from Iran, deliveries of tanks and other armoured vehicles from Belarus, and reportedly planned to trade for artillery ammunition from North Korea and ballistic missiles from Iran. 
The U.S. has accused China of providing Russia with technology it needs for high-tech weapons, allegations which China has denied. The U.S. sanctioned a Chinese firm for providing satellite imagery to Russian mercenary forces fighting in Ukraine. 
In March 2023, Western nations had pressed the United Arab Emirates to halt re-exports of goods to Russia which had military uses, amidst allegations that the Gulf country exported 158 drones to Russia in 2022. In May 2023, the U.S. accused South Africa of supplying arms to Russia in a covert naval operation, allegations which have been denied by South African president Cyril Ramaphosa. 
Notes 
^ a b The Donetsk People's Republic and the Luhansk People's Republic were Russian-controlled puppet states that declared their independence from Ukraine in May 2014. In 2022 they received international recognition from each other, Russia, Syria and North Korea, and some other partially recognised states. On 30 September 2022 Russia declared it had formally annexed both entities. 
^ There are "some contradictions and inherent problems" regarding the date on which the occupation began. The Ukrainian Government maintains, and the European Court of Human Rights agrees, that Russia controlled Crimea from 27 February 2014, when unmarked Russian special forces took control of its political institutions. The Russian Government later made 27 February "Special Operations Forces Day". In 2015, the Ukrainian parliament officially designated 20 February 2014 as "the beginning of the temporary occupation of Crimea and Sevastopol by Russia", citing the date inscribed on the Russian medal "For the Return of Crimea". On that date, Vladimir Konstantinov, then Chairman of the Supreme Council of Crimea, had said the region would be prepared to join Russia. In 2018, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov claimed that the earlier "start date" on the medal was due to a "technical misunderstanding". President Putin stated in a Russian film about the annexation that he ordered the operation to "restore" Crimea to Russia following an all-night emergency meeting on 22–23 February 2014. 
^ "Istanbul Document 1999". Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe. 19 November 1999. Archived from the original on 1 June 2014. Retrieved 21 July 2015. 
^ Cordesman, Anthony H. (28 May 2014). "Russia and the 'Color Revolution'". Center for Strategic and International Studies. Archived from the original on 24 February 2022. Retrieved 4 March 2022. 
^ Brown, Colin (3 April 2008). "EU allies unite against Bush over Nato membership for Georgia and Ukraine". The Independent. p. 24. 
^ Evans, Michael (5 April 2008). "President tells summit he wants security and friendship". The Times. p. 46. President Putin, in a bravura performance before the world's media at the end of the Nato summit, warned President Bush and other alliance leaders that their plan to expand eastwards to Ukraine and Georgia 'didn't contribute to trust and predictability in our relations'. 
^ Dinan, Desmond; Nugent, Neil (eds.). The European Union in Crisis. Palgrave Macmillan. pp. 3, 274. 
^ *"Ukraine v. Russia (re Crimea) (decision)". European Court of Human Rights. January 2021. Archived from the original on 22 February 2024. Retrieved 22 February 2024. The Ukrainian Government maintains that the Russian Federation has from 27 February 2014 exercised effective control over the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol ... There was sufficient evidence that during the relevant period the respondent State [Russia] had exercised effective control over Crimea. 
Sasse, Gwendolyn (2023). Russia's War Against Ukraine. Wiley & Sons. p. 2004. Russia's war against Ukraine began with the annexation of Crimea on 27 February 2014. On that day, Russian special forces without any uniform insignia appeared in Crimea, quickly taking control of strategic, military and political institutions. 
Käihkö, Ilmari (2023). Slava Ukraini!: Strategy and the Spirit of Ukrainian Resistance 2014–2023. Helsinki University Press. p. 72. If asked when the war began, many Ukrainians believe it was when the unmarked Russian 'little green men' occupied Crimea on February 27, 2014, or February 20, the date given on the official Russian campaign medal 'For the Return of Crimea'. 
^ Lessons from Russia's Operations in Crimea and Eastern Ukraine Archived 17 February 2022 at the Wayback Machine, p. 19, published by RAND Corporation in 2017. "Ukraine's government was in transition following the ouster of Yanukovych. As a result, it did not react to the Russian operation when launched. Russia's task was made relatively easy by the confusion and chaos that generally follows an uprising, such as what happened in Kyiv. Moscow capitalized on the tensions and uncertainty in Crimea, as well as on the inexperience of Ukraine's provisional government. Meeting notes of the discussion among Ukrainian leadership reveal a great deal of anxiety, uncertainty, and unwillingness to take action for fear of escalation." 
^ a b DeBenedictis, Kent (2022). Russian 'Hybrid Warfare' and the Annexation of Crimea. Bloomsbury Publishing. p. 140. During the night of 26-27 February, Russian special forces without insignia departed Sevastopol ... They arrived at the Crimean Rada and Council of Ministers buildings in Simferopol, disarmed the security and took control of the buildings ... Putin later signed a decree designating 27 February as Special Operations Forces Day in Russia. 
^ "Checkpoints put at all entrances to Sevastopol". Kyiv Post. 26 February 2014. Archived from the original on 26 February 2014. Retrieved 23 April 2014. Checkpoints were put up at all entrances to Sevastopol last night and the borders to the city are guarded by groups of people, police units, and traffic police. 
^ "Doorstep statement". Archived from the original on 16 November 2022. Retrieved 16 November 2022. NATO Allies have provided training to Ukrainian forces since 2014. In particular, the United States, the United Kingdom and Canada, have conducted significant training in Ukraine since the illegal annexation of Crimea, but also some EU NATO members have been part of these efforts. 
^ a b c Arel, Dominique; Driscoll, Jesse, eds. (2023). Ukraine's Unnamed War. Cambridge University Press. pp. 138–140. 
^ Wynnyckyj, Mychailo (2019). Ukraine's Maidan, Russia's War: A Chronicle and Analysis of the Revolution of Dignity. Columbia University Press. pp. 151–153. 
^ Holcomb, Franklin (2017). The Kremlin's Irregular Army (PDF). Institute for the Study of War. Archived (PDF) from the original on 20 January 2022. Retrieved 5 October 2021. 
^ Loshkariov, Ivan D.; Sushentsov, Andrey A. (2 January 2016). "Radicalization of Russians in Ukraine: from 'accidental' diaspora to rebel movement". Southeast European and Black Sea Studies. Informa UK Limited. 16 (1): 71–90. doi:10.1080/14683857.2016.1149349. ISSN 1468-3857. S2CID 147321629. 
^ "Poroshenko: ATO Is Ukraine's Patriotic War". Archived from the original on 27 August 2014. Retrieved 11 April 2015. President Petro Poroshenko considers the government's anti-terrorist operation (ATO) against separatists as Ukraine's patriotic war. 
^ Kramer, Andrew. "Ukraine Says Russian Forces Lead Major New Offensive in East". CNBC. Archived from the original on 28 August 2014. Tanks, artillery and infantry have crossed from Russia into an unbreached part of eastern Ukraine in recent days, attacking Ukrainian forces and causing panic and wholesale retreat not only in this small border town but a wide swath of territory, in what Ukrainian and Western military officials are calling a stealth invasion. 
^ Tsevtkova, Maria (26 August 2014). "'Men in green' raise suspicions of east Ukrainian villagers". Reuters. Archived from the original on 23 February 2022. Retrieved 6 July 2021. Unidentified, heavily-armed strangers with Russian accents have appeared in an eastern Ukrainian village, arousing residents' suspicions despite Moscow's denials that its troops have deliberately infiltrated the frontier. 
^ Whitmore, Brian (26 August 2016). "Podcast: The Tale Of The Tape". RadioFreeEurope/RadioLiberty. Archived from the original on 23 September 2016. Retrieved 29 August 2016. 
^ "UN resolution against Ukraine invasion: Full text". Al Jazeera. 2 March 2022. Archived from the original on 3 March 2022. Retrieved 25 March 2022. The General Assembly ... [d]eplores in the strongest terms the aggression by the Russian Federation against Ukraine in violation of Article 2 (4) of the Charter 
^ Chernova, Anna; Cotovio, Vasco; Thompson, Mark (28 February 2022). "Sanctions slams Russian economy". CNN. Archived from the original on 28 February 2022. Retrieved 4 March 2022. 
^ Altman, Howard (22 September 2023). "Exclusive Interview With Ukraine's Spy Boss From His D.C. Hotel Room". The War Zone. Archived from the original on 24 September 2023. Retrieved 24 September 2023. TWZ: (...) Were you guys involved with the attack on a Wagner-backed militia in Sudan? CNN reported that Ukrainians were likely involved in the attack on the Rapid Support Forces (RSF) forces with FPV drones. KB: I will only say the following: About two to three months ago I was giving an interview to one of the media, I don't remember which specific one. I answered them back then that anywhere across the world we will be seeking and hunting down Russian military criminals, and sooner or later that time will come whenever they are. That is why we shouldn't be surprised when in any territory, something happens to Russian military criminals. Then speaking about your specific question about Sudan, regretfully I cannot confirm or deny. 
^ a b c Young, Cathy (24 July 2014). "Putin's Pal". Slate. Retrieved 19 February 2022. 
^ Chesnakov, Aleksei (26 February 2020). "Surkov: I am interested to act against the reality" [Сурков: мне интересно действовать против реальности]. Actualcomment.ru (in Russian). Archived from the original on 24 February 2022. Retrieved 27 February 2020. 
^ a b Scislowska; Pablo Gorondi; Karel Janicek; Jovana Gec; Corneliu Rusnac (12 March 2014). "Russian aggression unnerves other neighbours". The Chronicle Herald. Associated Press. Retrieved 14 March 2014. 
^ Bershidsky, Leonid (6 February 2015). "One Year Later, Crimeans Prefer Russia". Bloomberg News. Archived from the original on 13 April 2016. Retrieved 13 March 2022. Eighty-two percent of those polled said they fully supported Crimea's inclusion in Russia, and another 11 percent expressed partial support. Only 4 percent spoke out against it. 
^ "Sotsial'no-politicheskiye nastroyeniya zhiteley Kryma" Социально-политические настроения жителей Крыма [Socio-Political Moods of Crimean Residents] (PDF). GfK Ukraine (in Russian). Archived from the original (PDF) on 29 October 2015. Retrieved 20 December 2018. 82% крымчан полностью поддерживают присоединение Крыма к России, 11% – скорее поддерживают, и 4% высказались против этого. Среди тех, кто не поддерживает присоединение Крыма к России, больше половины считают, что присоединение было не полностью законным и его нужно провести в соответствии с международным правом [82% of Crimeans fully support the annexation of Crimea to Russia, 11% rather support it, and 4% were against it. Among those who do not support the annexation of Crimea to Russia, more than half believe that the annexation was not completely legal and should be carried out in accordance with international law] 
^ "Poll: 82% of Crimeans support annexation". UNIAN. 4 February 2015. A total of 82% of the population of the Crimea fully support Russia's annexation of the peninsula, according to a poll carried out by the GfK Group research institute in Ukraine, Ukrainian online newspaper Ukrainska Pravda reported on Wednesday. Another 11% of respondents said that they rather support the annexation of Crimea, while 4% were against it. 
^ "Ukraine v. Russia (re Crimea) (decision)". European Court of Human Rights. January 2021. The Ukrainian Government maintains that the Russian Federation has from 27 February 2014 exercised effective control over the Autonomous Republic of Crimea and the city of Sevastopol ... There was sufficient evidence that during the relevant period the respondent State [Russia] had exercised effective control over Crimea. 
^ Sasse, Gwendolyn (2023). Russia's War Against Ukraine. Wiley & Sons. p. 2004. Russia's war against Ukraine began with the annexation of Crimea on 27 February 2014. On that day, Russian special forces without any uniform insignia appeared in Crimea, quickly taking control of strategic, military and political institutions. 
^ "7683rd meeting of the United Nations Security Council. Thursday, 28 April 2016, 3 p.m. New York". Mr. Prystaiko (Ukraine): ... In that regard, I have to remind the Council that the official medal that was produced by the Russian Federation for the so-called return of Crimea has the dates on it, starting with 20 February, which is the day before that agreement was brought to the attention of the Security Council by the representative of the Russian Federation. Therefore, the Russian Federation started – not just planned, but started – the annexation of Crimea the day before we reached the first agreement and while President Yanukovych was still in power. 
Derix, Steven. Zelensky: Ukraine's President and His Country (2022) excerpt 
Hagendoorn, A.; Linssen, H.; Tumanov, S. V. (2001). Intergroup Relations in States of the former Soviet Union: The Perception of Russians. New York: Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-1-84169-231-9. 
Marples, David R. ed. The War in Ukraine's Donbas: Origins, Contexts, and the Future (2022) excerpt 


Six months, twenty-three lessons: What the world has learned from Russia’s war in Ukraine 
When it was first launched in the wee hours of February 24, the Kremlin’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine was supposed to last just a few days and end with the quick capture of Kyiv. 
Fast-forward six months: Those plans collapsed in spectacular fashion as Ukraine beat back Russian troops through a combination of sheer determination and plentiful Western arms. But despite Ukraine’s success, the conflict is far from over. On the contrary, it appears to be settling into a long, attritional battle that will test Ukrainian and Western resolve. 
The conflict, moreover, has already transformed much of what the world thought it knew about not only military operations and strategy, but also diplomacy, intelligence, national security, energy security, economic statecraft, and much more. So as the war hits its half-year mark, we asked experts across our vast network to share the biggest lessons they’ve learned from the crisis. The results, an illuminating and wide-ranging primer for policymakers and the public alike, are below. 
Scroll and click through the carousel below to jump to a lesson: 
Lesson for Western diplomacy: Don’t second-guess Ukrainians 
Since day one, there’s been too much reluctance in the Biden administration: to share real-time intelligence with Ukraine for fear that not everyone in the Ukrainian government is trustworthy; to send heavy weapons for fear that Ukrainians don’t know how to use them (and that it would take too long to train Ukrainians); to send large enough assistance packages for fear of corruption. There’s also been an enormous reluctance to use the right language to describe the United States’ actual goal; when Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin talked about defeating Moscow so badly that it cannot attack Ukraine again, US President Joe Biden dressed him down. 
Yet time and again, Ukrainians have proven themselves worthy of America’s trust (and then some). With Western intelligence, they were able to withstand the invasion of Kyiv’s Hostomel Airport, which could have been decisive, and eradicate scads of Russian generals in addition to the Russian Navy’s flagship, the Moskva. With US weapons, Ukrainian soldiers pushed the Russians out of Kyiv and forced them to retreat to the Donbas. Now, with American long-range rockets, they’ve hit dozens of high-value targets. The bottom line is obvious: When Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy and his team say they need something, the request is legitimate, and the United States should honor it immediately. 
—Melinda Haring is the deputy director of the Eurasia Center. 
Lesson for global diplomacy: Putin’s regime can’t be trusted—and needs to be defeated 
Six months of Russia’s genocidal war against Ukraine, as well as years of the Kremlin’s invasions of neighboring states and more recent hybrid warfare against the West, have made it clear that any agreements with Putin’s regime are simply not viable and often counterproductive. Russia invaded Ukraine in 2014 after having committed to be a guarantor of its sovereignty and territorial integrity under the Budapest Memorandum; in its most recent assault, the Kremlin seized one-fifth of Ukraine’s territories following years of negotiations over the conflict in Ukraine within the Normandy format and the Minsk agreements. 
Moscow has been vocal about its disrespect for international law, liberal institutions, and all kinds of international treaties with partners and rivals alike. By committing war crimes and crimes against humanity in Ukraine, violating the basic principle of freedom of navigation, weaponizing food supplies and refugees, and engaging in energy and nuclear blackmail, Putin’s regime has posed existential threats not only to the future of the Ukrainian nation, but also to a rules-based world order. Appeasement, dialogue, and compromises with an aggressor have never worked. Russia escalates when it senses weakness and withdraws when it senses strength. If the world wants a sustainable peace in the region—rather than a tactical pause in Russian assaults—the West must learn the language of power, which is the only language Putin understands. 
—Yevgeniya Gaber is a nonresident senior fellow at the Atlantic Council IN TURKEY. 
Lesson for US foreign policy: The United States can no longer rely on strategic ambiguity 
When a state possesses substantially more power than its adversaries, a policy of strategic ambiguity can spark reluctance among those adversaries to take actions that might provoke retaliation—especially if the more powerful nation has a reputation for responding unpredictably or disproportionately. But when a state’s relative power is perceived to be in decline, then a policy of strategic ambiguity can, conversely, inspire adventurism in an adversary—especially if the declining power is seen to be withdrawing, or otherwise appears weak or distracted. 
The long era of strong American relative power allowed US policymakers the luxury of adopting policies that featured strategic ambiguity. But those days have unfortunately passed, as was demonstrated when Russian President Vladimir Putin invaded Ukraine, undeterred by the intentionally ambiguous signals that the United States had sent during the preceding decades about the nature of its commitment to Ukrainian sovereignty. He was also encouraged by the perception of US weakness in the wake of the withdrawal from Afghanistan and dysfunction in its domestic politics. There is an important lesson here for US policymakers who might prefer to cling to strategic ambiguity when seeking to deter a Chinese invasion of Taiwan, for instance, or Iranian aggression in the Gulf. Today, more explicit statements about US red lines are in order. In the current environment, such statements are likely to help prevent rather than provoke an escalation. 
—William F. Wechsler is senior director of the Rafik Hariri Center and Middle East Programs at the Atlantic Council. 
Lesson for US national security: Washington must contend with Beijing, Moscow, and Tehran at the same time 
The Biden administration came to office believing it could park relations with Russia, putting it on a “stable and predictable” footing while prioritizing competition with China as part of its national-security policy. But Moscow had other ideas: By launching the largest land war in Europe since World War II, Putin reminded Washington how much its security and prosperity is tied to peace and stability in Europe. The Biden administration was forced to return to the drawing board and rewrite its national-security strategy (which has still not been published more than one-and-a-half years into Biden’s term) because the first version gave short shrift to Russia. 
China should be a priority, but the United States remains a global power with global interests; its national-security strategy must reflect that reality. An effective approach must address the serious threats posed by China and North Korea in the Indo-Pacific, Iran in the Middle East, and Russia in Europe. Moreover, these threats are interconnected—with Russia, China, and Iran increasingly working together. Success in one of these theaters will strengthen, not sap, US power to deal with the others. 
—Matthew Kroenig is the acting director of the Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security. 
Lesson for military operations: Equipment doesn’t win wars. People do. 
Russia spent around $65 billion on defense in 2021, or more than ten times what Ukraine did that year. If equipment was the deciding factor, Russia would have achieved the overwhelming, lightning-fast victory it sought months ago. But in this war, Ukraine has shown that good leadership and training—of which it has plenty, but Russia has very little—make all the difference. 
Since both countries share a long military tradition dating back to Imperial Russia, the difference in their respective performances on the battlefield (and the reasons why) are instructive. Since 1993, Ukraine has been part of the US National Guard’s State Partnership Program, in which its armed forces have been trained according to the US model of giving mission-type orders to junior officers and non-commissioned officers (NCOs), explaining the commander’s intent, and empowering them to make on-the-spot decisions based on the changing facts on the ground. No one becomes an expert combat decision-maker overnight, so realistic exercises are held and a culture is fostered that encourages individual initiative and demands rigorous assessment. This open and transparent way of operating has resulted in high morale and performance on the battlefield. 
By contrast, Russia’s armed forces (which rely heavily on conscripts) lack professional NCOs and discourage initiative and feedback. Decision-making authority remains heavily centralized, with only senior officers permitted to act independently. This is why so many Russian generals have been killed in this war; nobody at a lower level had the leadership experience, big-picture understanding, or authority to act decisively when things didn’t go as planned. The Russian way of war has been predictable: battlefield failure and low morale. 
—Colonel John “Buss” Barranco was the 2021-22 senior US Marine Corps fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security. 
Lesson for military planning: Nimble modern weapons can defeat larger, conventionally armed forces—especially when on the defensive 
The United States has organized an effective “Arsenal of Democracy” to defend Ukraine. In the battle for Kyiv, Russian tanks, troop carriers, supply trucks, helicopters, and fighter aircraft were demolished by small and mobile Ukrainian defensive units armed with weapons such as Stingers, Javelins, NLAWs, and drones. A platform-heavy, twentieth-century Russian force was defeated handily by a light twenty-first-century one. In the battle for the Donbas, Russia’s twentieth-century artillery greatly outnumbered Ukraine’s artillery—until fairly small numbers of new American-made Highly Mobility Artillery Rocket System (HIMARS) were introduced. Their precision-strike capability destroyed scores of Russian ammunition dumps and headquarters, among other units, thereby slowing the Russian advance. And in the Black Sea, Russian naval vessels vastly outnumbered the remnants of the Ukrainian Navy—until accurate Ukrainian-made Neptune and American-made Harpoon missiles were introduced, forcing the Russian Navy to retreat. These were all essentially defensive situations for Ukraine. 
Now Ukraine will seek to regain as much of its occupied territory as possible, but it will not be easy. Ukrainian forces will use many of these same precision-strike systems to try to regain Kherson and the Donbas, but they will also be advancing against strong Russian defensive positions. This worked well initially for American forces two decades ago when taking offensive action against Iraqi insurgents and Afghan insurgents, but it remains to be seen whether Ukrainian forces can pull off the same feat. The outcome will determine whether Putin can claim some degree of success in his ruthless adventure. 
—Hans Binnendijk is a distinguished fellow at the Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security. 
Lesson for deterrence: Troop deployments work better than threats of economic sanctions 
As Russian troops assembled to invade Ukraine early this year, many defense analysts believed the threat of severe economic sanctions would be enough to deter a Russian attack. But for Putin, revanchist territorial aims outweighed any potential harm that might be done to the Russian economy through Western sanctions. While great damage has been done to the Russian consumer economy, the ruble has strengthened and foreign reserves have increased due to high oil prices and shifting Russian markets. Putin’s judgment appears to have been correct, at least in the short term. 
NATO leaders had made it clear that they would not commit troops to defend Ukraine, which led Putin to miscalculate on two fronts—underestimating Ukrainians’ ability to defend themselves and the West’s willingness to rapidly arm them. So Western defense officials have relearned a Cold War-era lesson: What deters Russian aggression is NATO troops on the Alliance’s eastern flank, not the threat of economic sanctions. It’s possible that if Alliance troops had deployed to Ukraine, it could have deterred the invasion; but they may have also started World War III. Deploying troops forward on NATO territory now will assure that Putin does not miscalculate again. 
The cornerstone of the recent NATO summit was an effort to absorb and implement this lesson. NATO’s deterrent posture is shifting from “deterrence by punishment” to “deterrence by denial,” and allied forces are being positioned forward to deny Russia’s ability to occupy any bit of NATO territory. Battalion-sized NATO battle groups have now been deployed to eight frontline allies, and American forces in Europe have increased to one hundred thousand. Many believe that even more needs to be done to assure deterrence by denial—for example, by deploying brigade- or even division-level NATO forces to frontline allied countries. 
—Hans Binnendijk is a distinguished fellow at the Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security. 
Lesson for the global economy: The new tools of conflict are economic—and they are powerful 
When Russia invaded Ukraine, President Biden made clear that the United States would not directly intervene militarily. But that didn’t mean the United States and its allies were left without recourse; instead, the Group of Seven (G7) nations decided to freeze approximately $350 billion in Russian assets. To put that in perspective, it’s roughly the size of Austria’s entire economy. The move shocked Russian President Vladimir Putin and his central bank, putting enormous pressure on the Russian economy. It also turned heads around the world: Most countries hold some reserves in dollars and euros, and now they’re thinking hard about the risks to those assets in the event of a future crisis. But since the United States, Japan, the European Union, and the United Kingdom are aligned, countries don’t see many alternatives (for now). China’s renminbi is not yet a viable option as a true international currency. So what’s the takeaway going forward for the global economy? The United States—and the dollar—are stronger with allies. 
—Josh Lipsky is the senior director of the GeoEconomics Center. 
Lesson for economic statecraft: Don’t separate sanctions from longer-term foreign-policy objectives 
In the run-up to invasion, great hope was placed on sanctions as the primary tool with which to deter Russian aggression. Putin, the widespread thinking held, could not possibly want to ruin his economy for the sake of murdering Ukrainians. But rationality is a concept that can be perilously difficult to nail down, and economic rationality was not a factor in Putin’s plans for Ukraine. Sanctions as a deterrent were worth the effort but were ultimately not going to stop the invasion. 
This lesson needs to remain front-of-mind during what is likely to be a long war. The inability of the West to use sanctions to prevent war does not mean they are a useless gambit; instead, they should constitute a strategy for longer-term goals. Any tactical advantages that accrue from sanctions should be considered positive externalities, not an explicit end goal. Those policy goals should remain what Biden discussed in late February: that sanctions are meant to isolate Putin and his regime so long as Putinism remains the dominant form of rule in Russia. There is no going back to the pre-war period, in which many in the West clung to the idea that trade could integrate Putin’s Kremlin into a rules-based system. Only after Putinism—the primary driver of Russia’s external aggression—is gone should the West use the leverage of lifting sanctions to allow for Russia’s economic reintegration. 
—Brian O’Toole is a nonresident senior fellow at the GeoEconomics Center and worked at the US Department of the Treasury as a senior adviser to the director of the Office of Foreign Assets Control. 
Lesson for economic statecraft: Sanctions work, but they are messy and take time 
Policy tools are generally imprecise. When they work, which is not always, it is seldom in accord with the clean outcome or short timeline often promised in a US State Department or National Security Council policy paper. This is especially true with sanctions, which can be intended to weaken an adversary over time. 
These are the purposes of the current sanctions against Russia, which resemble the clumsy, contentious, and inconsistent economic measures imposed against the Soviet Union after its invasion of Afghanistan in 1979. While these measures did not cause the USSR to collapse, they made it harder for the Soviet leadership to escape the consequences of the unreformed Soviet economy’s weakness. They took away the Western investment, technology transfer, and loans and credits that had propped up the Soviet economy and masked the rot within. The resulting economic trouble became obvious even to regime supporters by the early 1980s. 
Putin’s decision to wage war on Ukraine may bring similar results. Technology restrictions have hurt Russian industrial production. New financing and investment from the West is basically unavailable. And, one way or another, Russia’s income from exports will decline. Time is not on Ukraine’s side, which is why the country needs more military assistance (or the sharp edge of policy). But Putin has chosen to wage a dirty war and make the West an enemy; sanctions and other means of economic pressure may make his choice seem like folly, in addition to evil. 
—Daniel Fried is a Weiser family distinguished fellow at the Atlantic Council and a former US ambassador to Poland. 
Lesson for wartime strategic communications: Influence operations are a day-in, day-out job 
Despite the challenges it faces, the Ukrainian government successfully created and continues to implement a strategic-communications plan to galvanize international support, denigrate Russia, and inspire confidence in its ability to lead the country. Conducting this type of campaign isn’t sexy: It’s a grind—day in, day out—to share talking points with communicators, identify audiences to persuade, pull together data, and then connect with journalists, political figures, and influencers who can further spread the government’s message. But the beauty of what the Ukrainians have accomplished is that a vast network of people who follow the government’s messaging lead and further spread the campaign in ways that their individual networks can understand—thus building new advocates and reinforcing Ukraine’s base of support. 
Although President Zelenskyy is the focal point of this campaign, he’s in no way the only person who has remained on-message. Everyday people around the world (not just Ukrainians) feel empowered to advocate for Ukraine and disparage Russia. Images that include the blue and yellow of the Ukrainian flag, sunflowers, and children holding anti-war signs are so widely established that social-media posts that include these types of visuals no longer require any explanation. In large part, the Ukrainian government uses firsthand accounts and video clips as evidence, which further reinforces its message; and crucially, it has not resorted to large-scale mis- and disinformation as Russia has. Overall, the cohesion and duration of the Ukrainians’ campaign can, and should, be used as a template for what the United States and its allies can accomplish with an influence strategy, communications discipline, and a willingness to grind day-in, day-out to meet the end goal. 
—Jennifer Counter is a nonresident senior fellow at the Scowcroft Center’s Forward Defense practice. 
Lesson for hybrid warfare: Don’t ignore the fundamentals 
By almost every measure, Vladimir Putin’s “special military operation” has been a strategic failure. While still dangerous, Russia is arguably at its lowest point of soft influence in recent history, with pushback coming from neutral nations and even ones dependent on Russian energy. Russian war crimes have been laid bare for the world to see and repudiated by all but the Kremlin’s most stalwart allies. NATO resolve is stronger today than many could have ever imagined. Russia has lost its dominance of the narrative and is instead regularly trolled by Ukraine, which offers an alternate example of executive leadership in Volodymyr Zelenskyy. Every day that Ukraine continues to resist, albeit at horrific cost to its people, amounts to an incremental humiliation to Russia, squarely countering its ever-aspirational status as a “great power.” 
Much of the current condition has resulted from the Kremlin ignoring the fundamentals of warfare, including lessons openly observable from recent US forays in Afghanistan, Iraq, and elsewhere. First and foremost has been the poor utilization of intelligence, starting with Russia choosing the more kinetic end of the spectrum instead of focusing on its more adept gray-zone activities. In doing so, Russia’s intelligence apparatus miscalculated both the resolve and capability of Ukraine, as well as the level of support for Ukraine from the international community. This has contributed to staggering Russian losses on the battlefield and horrors against the Ukrainian people perpetrated by an unprofessional Russian military. There have also been similarly poor results in the function of sustainment (the military term for keeping operations going until objectives are achieved). 
Hybrid warfare is akin to a scalpel, not a knife, in pursuing strategic effects—and that level of precision requires robust awareness provided by a competent intelligence community that must be trusted to deliver bad news. Russia’s authoritarian governance model is poorly suited to this. Similar shortcomings have resulted in poor control of the information domain: Russia’s “Z” and “anti-Nazi” campaigns have been easily countered by a competent Ukraine that clearly knows its adversary and is able to effectively respond to its messaging through social-media campaigns coupled with broader outreach to the global community. In looking at Russia’s experience, the United States and its allies should ensure that the fundamentals of waging (hybrid) warfare are not ignored. 
—Arun Iyer is a nonresident senior fellow at the Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security’s Forward Defense practice and served in a variety of operational and operational leadership assignments in the US Department of Defense from 2005-2020. 
Lesson for the energy sector: Decades of energy diplomacy can disappear with one brutal invasion 
Efforts to draw Russia into the democratic fold of its Western neighbors through decades of economic integration and trillions of dollars of energy trade failed to prevent a brutal, senseless war in Ukraine, as well as the Kremlin’s weaponization of energy supplies across Europe. As a result, European energy systems are transforming in record time toward operating without Russian oil and gas. This unprecedented shift is neither cheap nor easy, and will take years to achieve in countries hooked on Russian energy and reliant on carbon-intensive economies. 
In the meantime, skyrocketing energy costs, mandated curtailments, and general uncertainty around energy supplies this winter will fuel temptations to slide back into the yoke of Russian energy dependence. But the risks of returning to the status quo of energy diplomacy with Russia monumentally outweigh any short-term relief that the Kremlin could offer through its supply blackmail. That’s because Moscow’s nationalization of the Russian energy industry leaves little room for market-based decisions, while geopolitical priorities (often aggressive ones) take precedent. Supply shut-offs and curtailment across Europe have shattered Russia’s veneer of reliability, while the country has doubled down on the unabated fossil-fuel economy rather than investing in diversification. 
Regardless of the war’s conclusion and potential leadership changes in Russia, the de-Russification of European energy sources is heading toward a point of no return. The short-term costs and challenges of this massive transformation cannot be underestimated. But forging reliable, resilient, low-carbon, and affordable energy systems—ones that can’t be threatened or manipulated by monopolistic suppliers—will benefit all of European society. 
—Olga Khakova is the deputy director for European energy security at the Global Energy Center. 
Lesson for global intelligence: Russia is not ten feet tall 
Six months ago, there was a plethora of doom-and-gloom analysis: The notion that the Russian military believed it could take Kyiv in thirty-six hours was reportedly shared not only by Putin but also by Western academic and intelligence-community analysts. Almost everyone got this fantastically wrong. Except, of course, the one entity that mattered most: the Ukrainians, who fought bravely and nearly unanimously believe they’ll win. A quick Russian blitzkrieg turned into a morass that will go down in military history, with 80,000 Russian casualties and no end in sight to Putin’s “special operation.” Now we see that the Russian military is a Potemkin village—corrupt, unfit, and fundamentally lacking in basic principles of logistics. 
Equally important, Russian hybrid-warfare efforts in Ukraine—particularly in the information-operations space—have also fallen short. Previous efforts around the world, such as Moscow’s meddling in the 2016 US presidential election, had spooked many (and perhaps for good reason). But Russia succeeded in the past mainly because it operated without pushback. No longer: Ukraine now appears one step ahead at every turn. Consider the Ukrainian Defense Ministry’s expert trolling on Twitter after a presumed strike by Ukrainian forces on a Russian airfield deep in occupied Crimea: It showed Russian tourists fleeing the beach to the sound of the 1983 Bananarama track “Cruel Summer.” How times have changed: Ukraine trolling Russia, not vice versa. This is exactly what was needed in the information-operations sphere: an offensive strategy that was proactive instead of reactive. 
—Marc Polymeropoulos is a nonresident senior fellow in the Forward Defense practice of the Atlantic Council’s Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security and worked for twenty-six years at the Central Intelligence Agency. 
Lesson for would-be invaders: You can’t hide preparations for a full-scale invasion 
In the four months leading up to the invasion, Kremlin-owned online outlets increasingly reported that Ukraine was preparing to attack the eastern Donbas region—or even Russia itself. The DFRLab monitored these open sources on a daily basis to measure the frequency of this messaging; in the pre-invasion period, Russian online coverage of the narrative about an impending Ukrainian attack rose dramatically, with a nearly 50 percent increase in January 2022 over the previous month. The narrative also became increasingly hostile—accusing Ukraine of planning a chemical attack in the Donbas, for example. Meanwhile, footage from social media, particularly Telegram and TikTok, documented ongoing Russian troop movements and deployment along Ukraine’s border. 
The spread of hostile Kremlin narratives in those final months before the invasion were in sync with the spread of Russian troops on the ground, with Russia essentially preparing domestic and international audiences for the invasion alongside actual military preparations. Through the combined open-source intelligence analysis of Russia’s behavior both online and offline, it became clear that Putin’s intentions were hiding in plain sight. 
—Eto Buziashvili is a Georgia-based research associate for the Caucasus at the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab. 
Lesson for cybersecurity: The private sector should play a critical military-operational role in cyberspace 
The information revolution has long been credited with changing key aspects of warfare. Network-centric operations, cyber offense and defense, and online information operations are now established elements of military doctrine and operations. But Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has generated a new role for the private sector, which is engaging in direct cyber combat against Russian cyber attacks and in support of Ukraine’s military and governmental functions. 
While Ukraine has its own capable cyber defenders—who, for example, stopped an attack against the Ukrainian electric grid—those efforts have been complemented by private-sector firms that have worked with Kyiv both by helping to identify and disable malware and by taking additional actions to create a much more defensible Ukrainian cyberspace. Both Microsoft and Cisco have published reports detailing defensive cyber efforts and European cybersecurity firms such as the Slovakian firm ESET have also been engaged. Ukraine’s cybersecurity defense has additionally been enhanced through the use of Starlink terminals and the transfer of Ukrainian governmental functions to cyber clouds outside Ukraine. The actions that these private companies have undertaken foreshadow the critical role such firms will play in future twenty-first-century conflicts. 
Going forward, the United States, NATO, and the democratic nations of the Indo-Pacific need to organize appropriate planning and operational collaborative mechanisms with key elements of the private sector to assure effective operation of cyberspace in the event of armed conflict. The United Kingdom’s National Cyber Security Center and the more recent US Joint Cyber Defense Collaborative are a good start, but those are not currently suited to the challenges of full-scale combat. Maintaining the functioning of information technology in wartime—particularly for critical infrastructures such as energy, food, water, transportation, and finance—will be an indispensable requirement for nations as a whole, as well as for effective military operations. Working in advance to assure the coordination of the intelligence and operational capabilities of the private sector with those of the government will be critical to the effective defense of cyberspace. 
—Franklin D. Kramer is a distinguished fellow and board director of the Atlantic Council, and has served as a senior political appointee in two administrations, including as assistant secretary of defense for international security affairs. 
Lesson for US homeland security: Ignoring the home front is a serious mistake 
After an initial burst of activity culminating in late April and early May, efforts by the US Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to counter Russia’s hybrid war in the United States appear to have faded—even amid a Russian “avalanche of disinformation,” as the Atlantic Council’s Digital Forensic Research Lab has documented. The last update to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency’s “Shields Up” webpage was dated May 11, and the most recent entry in CISA’s “Russia Cyber Threat Overview” was dated April 20. The last Russia-specific public alert, “Russian State-Sponsored and Criminal Cyber Threats to Critical Infrastructure,” was revised May 9. 
While DHS and the FBI are in frequent communication with agencies, companies, and individuals targeted by Russian cyberattacks, the public is often unaware of this quiet but vital activity. So more needs to be done by DHS and others to get the American people to understand and better resist the Russian hybrid-warfare campaigns that promote divisive propaganda and social-media manipulation. Russia’s hybrid-warfare strategy, which uses disinformation even more than cyberattacks, seems designed to wear down Western democracies’ opposition to Russia’s aggression. Senior DHS and administration officials should speak out more publicly on what Americans can do to counter Russian disinformation, cyber threats, and other Russian hybrid-warfare targeting of the civilian population. The home front—specifically, unity in the United States and NATO in opposing Russian aggression against Ukraine—is a vital source of national power. Ignoring it, or treating Ukraine as almost entirely a military and diplomatic crisis, could be a perilous mistake. 
—Thomas S. Warrick is a nonresident senior fellow at the Scowcroft Center for Strategy and Security’s Forward Defense practice. 
Lesson for US assistance policy: Invest deeply in key resilient partners 
Even as Washington sends billions of dollars’ worth of arms to Ukraine amid the ongoing war, it should also be planning for long-term security assistance to the country. The goal must be to ensure Ukraine’s ability to deter future aggression (and repel it if it comes). This will be an enormous undertaking; but like insurance, the costs pale in comparison to those of another round of war. 
President Zelenskyy sees his country developing into “a big Israel,” and the model of US assistance to Israel also applies here. US partners who are on the front lines of competition with Russia and China need capabilities—from missile defenses and anti-tank weapons to superior intelligence and counterintelligence—that enable them to absorb and survive strikes by adversaries. They also must have the ability to impose unacceptable costs on the aggressor. 
In the post-war era, building a Ukrainian air force, missile corps, and special forces that can defensively strike behind Russian lines will be essential. Annual appropriations, excess defense articles, and prepositioned US stocks for emergency use are all tools that can be employed to this end. Supporting the growth of a domestic industry that develops and produces innovative Ukrainian solutions to Ukrainian vulnerabilities will also be key. This approach reinforces a requirement that must accompany such assistance: the willingness and ability of Ukraine to defend itself on its own, which is something its citizens have already demonstrated in spades. This also means that, in extremis, US interoperability with a key partner will be assured. 
—Daniel B. Shapiro is a distinguished fellow at the Atlantic Council’s Middle East Programs and a former US ambassador to Israel. 
Lesson for NATO: The Alliance is a uniquely valuable institution that requires enduring political and financial investment 
NATO is a sometimes-arcane institution where disagreement and drama are routine occurrences among a membership that will soon reach thirty-two members. Accordingly, the Alliance can be an easy target for politicians seeking to score points domestically, with the presidents of the United States and France having called into question NATO’s utility and purpose in the recent past. But these critiques inevitably overlook the outsize role NATO has played in enabling peace and prosperity in Europe (and beyond). It’s no coincidence that large-scale war is again raging in Europe within years of NATO’s most important members openly questioning whether it had outlived its usefulness; Putin read American and French disillusionment with NATO as a lack of commitment to the Alliance and an opportunity to permanently rupture transatlantic unity. 
Fortunately, the habits of cooperation that the transatlantic community has developed over seven decades are not easily displaced—and NATO is once again showing its indispensability as a political and military actor. It’s a lesson that political leaders must absorb even after the resolution of Russia’s war in Ukraine. Had NATO not existed as the current crisis unfolded, the breathtaking levels of cooperation currently on display among allies in support of Ukraine and in strengthening deterrence in Europe would not be possible. Rather than using NATO as a punching bag, leaders must expend the political and economic capital to keep the Alliance healthy and adaptive. 
—Christopher Skaluba is the director of the Scowcroft Center’s Transatlantic Security Initiative. 
Lesson for Ukraine: There’s no way back for relations with Russia 
Since the collapse of the Soviet Union, bilateral ties between post-Soviet Ukraine and Russia have been colored by centuries of imperial baggage. While this complex relationship became particularly thorny after Russia’s seizure of Crimea in 2014, a significant number of Ukrainians continued to harbor positive attitudes toward Russians, while political parties advocating a thaw in bilateral ties remained popular in traditionally Russophile regions of Ukraine. All this changed dramatically on February 24. 
The unprecedented devastation caused by the invasion has completely transformed Ukrainian perceptions of Russia, particularly in formerly Moscow-friendly (and now heavily bombarded) parts of eastern Ukraine. The sheer scale of the violence, which has included widespread war crimes, has been a traumatic wake-up call for the many Ukrainians who still clung to notions of Russia as a brotherly nation. At the anecdotal level, it is now routine to encounter Ukrainians struggling to come to terms with Russia’s betrayal, or expressing pure hatred toward the Russian people as a whole. Many Ukrainians are no longer able to engage with Russian relatives, while growing numbers are ditching the Russian language and switching to Ukrainian. Recent opinion polls reflect the profound nature of these changes, with Ukrainian backing for Euro-Atlantic integration skyrocketing and support for closer ties with Russia collapsing to record lows. The war is far from over, but it’s already clear that the relationship between Russians and Ukrainians has been irrevocably damaged. 
Lesson for China: Today’s Ukraine is not tomorrow’s Taiwan 
Chinese strategists believe the United States’ strategic ambiguity over Taiwan is dead in all but name, as demonstrated by Biden’s repeated gaffes about Washington’s willingness to defend the island through force and US House Speaker Nancy Pelosi’s recent visit there. They believe that if a war breaks out in the Taiwan Strait, Washington will “fight till the last Taiwanese”—just as it has been seen as doing in Ukraine against Russia—in a proxy war to contain Beijing, mobilizing its allies along the way to support the effort. 
Yet even while the West has been able to inflict painful punishment on Russia’s economy, Putin’s war shows that sanctions are a double-edged sword, especially when it comes to China, the world’s second-largest economy. Beijing has been keeping a close eye on European citizens, who are shouldering record-high inflation and surging electricity prices ahead of a potentially very cold winter. Chinese officials’ relentless push for economic liberalization serves as more than just a means of gaining from globalization; it also acts as a signal to the West over China’s core interests, warning: “If I go down, you’re going with me.” 
From Beijing’s perspective, political, diplomatic, and economic retaliation against pro-independence actions in Taiwan—when coupled with the threat of a total military blockade and China’s nuclear saber-rattling—can serve as a credible deterrent that puts the onus of escalation on the enemy (in this case, the United States). Therefore, Beijing will act under the assumption that, in the event of a war in the Taiwan Strait, time and momentum are on its side, meaning that the price the Chinese people are willing to pay for Taiwan is significantly higher than that of Western constituents. 
—Tuvia Gering is a nonresident fellow in the Atlantic Council’s Global China Hub. 
Lesson for Middle East policymakers: America will always do the right thing, but only after exhausting all the alternatives 
While this adage is often attributed to Winston Churchill, there’s actually no record of him ever saying it. Nevertheless, it has long resonated with Washington’s foreign partners and allies, who have been repeatedly frustrated by the inconsistencies and inactions that have too often characterized US policies over the decades. Most recently, leaders from the United Arab Emirates publicly expressed their disappointment that the Biden administration didn’t respond quickly enough when Houthi rebels attacked the Abu Dhabi airport in January; and similarly, Saudi leaders were aghast when the Trump administration didn’t respond after Iran attacked the country’s energy infrastructure in 2019. 
But the Biden administration’s strong and unwavering response to Putin’s invasion of Ukraine has proven, once again, that the United State can indeed be relied upon—especially when confronted by a globally resonant crisis on a scale that necessitates American leadership. That lesson has not been lost on leaders in Taipei or Beijing. And leaders in the Middle East who are inclined to doubt American resolve should note that Washington has taken powerful and economically painful actions to support Ukrainian sovereignty, even though no treaty committed the United States to this in advance (just as there was no treaty that required the United States to come to Kuwait’s defense when Saddam Hussein invaded the country). Rather than demanding such commitments, American partners in the region would be better advised to work with the Biden administration to think through scenarios that might require a similar US response, and to work together to build interdependent capabilities to deter them. 
—William F. Wechsler is senior director of the Rafik Hariri Center and Middle East Programs at the Atlantic Council. 
Lesson for Germany and its allies: Seize this moment for a strategic reversal 
Putin’s war in Ukraine was a rude awakening for decision-makers in Berlin and for average Germans from Hamburg to Munich. Decades of divestment from both hard power and energy diversification, plus the strategic detachment with which Germany had pursued its global engagement, came home to roost. This left Europe’s largest economy exposed to energy blackmail by Moscow and with few options to shore up NATO as the cornerstone of its own defense or hold Putin at arm’s length by supporting Kyiv with weapons. 
Lofty pronouncements by Chancellor Olaf Scholz about boosting his country’s defense capacity have, in reality, been tough to follow with actual action. This is especially true for arms deliveries to Ukraine or Bundeswehr boots on the ground to strengthen NATO’s eastern flank. On the energy front, the jury is still out on whether a mix of government intervention, conservation efforts, the rapid deployment of liquid natural gas terminals, and even a potential pause of Germany’s exit from nuclear power can help avert the worst for Europe’s economic engine. Berlin’s credibility as a reliable NATO and EU ally has taken a severe toll, especially in Eastern Europe. 
Moving forward, the transatlantic partners will need a more strategic Germany—politically, economically, and militarily—as everyone prepares for a long-term confrontation and competition with Moscow and other autocrats. The indisputable failure of cornerstones in German foreign, defense, and energy policies extends beyond Berlin decision-makers, many of whom have long lamented in private their country’s lack of global leadership. The United States and European allies should seize on Germany’s existential crisis as an opportunity for a reset and engage German policymakers in concrete initiatives. They should demand and support new German leadership in key areas, such as NATO’s eastern defense, Europe’s energy transition away from Russia, and new efforts on both sides of the Atlantic to reduce economic and technology dependencies on any one actor. The experience of the last six months—and what is to come this winter—can help Germany develop a new leadership role that advances European and transatlantic objectives. 
—Jörn Fleck is the acting director of the Europe Center, and Rachel Rizzo is a nonresident senior fellow at the Europe Center. 
This website or its third-party tools use cookies, which are necessary for its functioning and required to achieve the purposes illustrated in the cookie policy. You accept the use of cookies as per our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy by closing or dismissing this notice, by scrolling this page, by clicking a link or button or by continuing to browse otherwise.Ok 


By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. 
Technology Alone Won’t Break the Stalemate in Ukraine 
Kyiv’s Western backers need to grasp that drones are no substitute for a capable fighting force. 
By Gavin Wilde, a senior fellow in the technology and international affairs program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. 
With U.S. aid to Ukraine stalled in Congress by an entrenched Republican Party and the Ukrainian counteroffensive stalled by entrenched Russian forces, Kyiv’s Western backers are grasping for ways to bolster its war effort. Since trained personnel and artillery are in short supply, their attention has turned to drones and artificial intelligence. However, overestimating the role such technologies can play in armed conflict risks solidifying the very stalemate that Ukraine needs to break. 
With U.S. aid to Ukraine stalled in Congress by an entrenched Republican Party and the Ukrainian counteroffensive stalled by entrenched Russian forces, Kyiv’s Western backers are grasping for ways to bolster its war effort. Since trained personnel and artillery are in short supply, their attention has turned to drones and artificial intelligence. However, overestimating the role such technologies can play in armed conflict risks solidifying the very stalemate that Ukraine needs to break. 
In some ways, a focus on digital battlefield intelligence, automated targeting, and unmanned aerial vehicles by both the Russians and Ukrainians is unsurprising—neither side has many other options to work with at this point, as their respective presidents, Vladimir Putin and Volodymyr Zelensky, both appear reticent to order new troop mobilizations. But it is also puzzling, since a techno-centric strategy seems to have played a major role in turning what the Kremlin predicted would be a three-day war into a now two-year-old war of attrition. 
Russia has ceded nearly half of the territory it once occupied in Ukraine at a cost of roughly 90 percent of its prewar standing forces. Yet on paper, it had Ukraine easily outnumbered and outgunned—without even mentioning the billions of rubles and years of investment into novel capabilities such as cyber operations, AI, robotics, drones, and electronic warfare. Perhaps this is why it was all too easy to discount the less quantifiable and less attention-grabbing—but ultimately more decisive—facets of war, such as planning, logistics, coordination, morale, and leadership. 
Technology’s most alluring quality for militaries is the promise that it might somehow make the physical demands of seizing territory somehow less expensive in terms of blood, treasure, time, and labor. But no matter how much granular insight, safe distance, and speed that technology provides, it simply cannot substitute for the kinds of traditional capabilities that characterized 20th-century conflicts. 
Since kicking off a military modernization program in 2008, Putin and his circle have sought to create a “modern high-technology army,” envisioning a war in which technological superiority would prove decisive. In the ensuing years, a host of advanced weapons systems filled out its arsenal, spurred its arms sales, and flooded battlefields in Syria. Meanwhile, Russian military and intelligence agencies—and proxies such as the late Wagner Group chief Yevgeny Prigozhin—posed increasingly sophisticated and brazen threats in cyberspace. 
By late 2021, these factors led some Western observers to conclude that Russia would easily prevail over Ukraine, including by dint of its technical prowess. 
Instead, Russia’s underwhelming conventional battlefield performance over the past two years showed that its reliance on high-tech weaponry came at the cost of focus on other key aspects of a functioning military—its defense-industrial base and supply lines became plagued by corruption while its threadbare officer corps were saddled with poor force structure and ineptitude. 
In turn, according to the former U.S. principal deputy director of national intelligence, Western analysts relied too much on cataloguing Russia’s inventory of gadgetry and cyber tools and failed to account for the context, planning, and quality of the forces using them. More fundamentally, Moscow and Western observers alike failed to account for the specific ways in which advanced technology would assist in taking, retaking, or holding territory. The hard truth, immutable since before the Trojans, is that doing so is an unavoidably human endeavor. 
Much of my professional research has been dedicated to understanding how Russian leaders think about conflict in cyberspace. Drawing distorted lessons from the U.S. military’s performance in the 1990s, Moscow’s warfighting doctrines link technology and psychology together in tenuous ways, with its goals often bordering on pseudoscientific mind control. 
For example, the Soviet theory of “reflexive control” aimed to induce adversaries into self-defeating behaviors by carefully placing “information packets” into various media channels. Psychological factors gradually dislodged even troops and materiel as the focal points of Russian military theorizing. Moreover, enemy forces were gradually replaced as the ultimate target; the digital age prompted an unending struggle over the perceptions of entire societies. 
In Ukraine, this has led Moscow to dedicate many of its high-tech capabilities, particularly cyber operations, less toward beating the Ukrainian armed forces and more toward immiserating Ukraine’s civilian population. Predictably, that strategy has yielded little territorial gain over the past year. Since at least 2014, the Russian military and intelligence services have attempted to sow havoc with cyberattacks in Ukraine, including those designed to cut off heat and electricity, as well as Internet and mobile connectivity. 
But what Moscow discounts is that its victims also get a vote: to rally round the flag, as Ukrainians have, rather than become demoralized. However costly and disruptive the cyberattacks may have proved, as part of a broader project to subjugate its neighbor politically and geographically, Moscow’s so-called information war has been a failure. 
Kyiv, for its part, has employed several novel technological approaches to beating back Russian invaders since early 2022. It democratized battlefield intelligence collection, enabling Ukrainian citizens to track and report Russian movements, collecting data on factors ranging from materiel to missiles. It galvanized a global volunteer corps working in cyberspace to target Russian organizations. It drew on commercially available communications and software to make an expansive arsenal of autonomous vehicles and drones increasingly lethal by air and sea. 
Ukraine’s technological ingenuity in this war will be the subject of study for generations. By comparison, and notwithstanding these feats, the Ukrainian military is both exhausted and stretched thin. More concerted focus on a strategy to demobilize long-serving troops, and to conscript and train new ones to replace them, is critically overdue. 
With both sides now scrambling to acquire and produce lower-cost, more expendable unmanned aerial vehicles—while simultaneously racing to improve their own electronic jamming capabilities—the near-term future of technology in this war could be characterized as innovation in service of attrition. Russia is drawing upon friends in Beijing and Tehran to augment its arsenal of unmanned vehicles, while Ukraine has become a hotbed for Western defense and technology firms fielding drone warfare capabilities. 
But had it been possible for either party in this war to achieve real battlefield progress from a safe remove through such high-tech tools and intelligence-gathering alone, conventional counteroffensives would not have been necessary in the first place. An influx of more tech into the war may therefore provide each side more distance from, and better insight into, the other’s troop movements. It is unlikely, however, to dislodge or drive them back—and may even risk Ukrainian forces getting goaded into costly battles, like that for the city of Bakhmut, that do little to change the status quo. 
That said, modeling itself after Western militaries may also not be Kyiv’s best bet for this conflict, not least the uniquely U.S. impulse to quantify all aspects of war into a digital problem to be solved through computation. Since U.S. Army Gen. William Westmoreland predicted the rise of automated warfare from Vietnam in 1969, the technologically enabled, supposedly “easier war” has always seemed imminent in theory, but somehow elusive in practice. 
As political scientist Stephanie Carvin writes, science and technology have “delivered some of the fastest ground invasions in the history of warfare, but have not been able to solve the difficult and complex” problems that inevitably follow. Focus on what Carvin calls the “shiny objects” themselves—like drones, cyber, and AI—often distracts from addressing how they might be integrated and adopted in service of concrete goals. 
None of this is to suggest that Kyiv’s motivations are anything other than existential. Given the headwinds that it faces, the Ukrainian military must doubtlessly maximize every possible advantage it can find. Particularly amid intensifying shell- hunger, Kyiv urgently needs inexpensive and rapidly scalable ways to minimize casualties on the front lines and keep Russian forces at bay. 
However, if Ukraine’s ultimate goal is to eject the occupying forces from its territory, there is reason to be cautious of a techno-solutionist approach, particularly one isolated from the broader organizational context of the Ukrainian military. 
An escalating arms race between Ukrainian drones and Russian electronic warfare may capture the imagination—and capital—of futurists, but it must not become conceptually untethered from the demands of combined arms in land wars past. While tactical systems such as drones can deny mobility at the front lines, they are far less likely to enable it. They are certainly no substitute for recruiting, training, and equipping a capable fighting force over the longer term. Doing so will demand hard decisions from Kyiv and its Western backers—particularly European capitals—none of whom should harbor, nor cultivate, any illusions about a technological panacea. 
No amount of technological wizardry can substitute for the arms, equipment, and training that the United States and a handful of allies can exclusively provide—nor for the personnel that Kyiv must recruit and mobilize. And if Kyiv fails to do so, the result may turn out to be less the “future of war” and more the marketing of stalemate. 
Science and Technology 
Russia 
Europe 
Ukraine 
Gavin Wilde is a senior fellow in the technology and international affairs program at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. 
Join the Conversation 
Commenting on this and other recent articles is just one benefit of a Foreign Policy subscription. 
Join the Conversation 
Join the conversation on this and other recent Foreign Policy articles when you subscribe now. 
Join the Conversation 
Please follow our comment guidelines, stay on topic, and be civil, courteous, and respectful of others’ beliefs. 
Change your username: 
Confirm your username to get started. 
The default username below has been generated using the first name and last initial on your FP subscriber account. Usernames may be updated at any time and must not contain inappropriate or offensive language. 
NATO’s newest member has a military conscription system that other countries can learn from. 
As Ukrainian forces brace for a new Russian offensive, Kyiv urgently needs supplemental military aid and ammunition. 
China Brief 
South Asia Brief 
Situation Report 
By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. 
By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. 
More from Foreign Policy 
Moscow is rebuilding its military in anticipation of a conflict with NATO in the next decade, Estonian officials warn. 
The calls for renewed U.S. global leadership are getting louder. They’re as mistaken as they ever were. 
What the reception to two viral moments reveals about our evolving global culture of authenticity. 
FP’s flagship evening newsletter guiding you through the most important world stories of the day, written by Alexandra Sharp. Delivered weekdays. 
By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. 
By submitting your email, you agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Use and to receive email correspondence from us. You may opt out at any time. 


Skip links 
Timeline: Six months of Russia’s war in Ukraine 
On February 24, Russia launched a full-scale assault on Ukraine. These are the main events of the war over six months. 
On February 24, Russia launched a full-scale invasion of Ukraine from Belarus to the north, the Russian-annexed Crimea Peninsula to the south, and its own territory to the east. 
The war has since killed thousands, displaced millions and destroyed entire cities. 
These are the main events of the war over the last six months. 
Phase 1 – Russia sets out to conquer Ukraine and replace its government. The West reacts by imposing comprehensive financial and trade sanctions on Russia. 
February 24: Russian President Vladimir Putin announces his decision to launch a “special military operation” in Ukraine in a pre-dawn speech and the land, sea, and air invasion begins. 
Ukraine’s President Volodymyr Zelenskyy gives a brief and defiant national address to declare martial law and general mobilisation. 
US President Joe Biden extends full blocking sanctions to four Russian banks and bans exports of sensitive US technologies, especially in the aviation, maritime and defence sectors. 
February 26-27: Zelenskyy refuses a US offer to evacuate, saying: “The fight is here; I need ammunition, not a ride”. 
Russia’s assault on Kyiv, the eastern city of Kharkiv and Chernihiv in the north stalls as Ukrainian defenders target supply vehicles with Javelin missiles. 
The European Union bans selected Russian banks from SWIFT and freezes Russian central bank deposits. It also bans Russian aircraft from EU airspace. 
Oil majors Shell, BP and Norway’s sovereign wealth fund pull out of Russian joint ventures. 
February 28: Ukraine applies to join the EU. 
March 1: A 65km (40.4-mile) Russian military convoy moves towards the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv. 
The US closes its skies to Russian air traffic. 
March 2: Russian forces enter the southern city of Kherson. A million Ukrainian refugees have now fled the country. 
March 4: Russian forces shell Europe’s biggest nuclear plant of Zaporizhzhia, raising fears of a Chernobyl-style disaster. 
March 8: The European Commission unveils REPowerEU, a plan to reduce dependence on Russian natural gas by two-thirds by the end of the year. The US imposes a ban on Russian crude oil imports. Ukrainian refugee numbers reach two million. 
US Congress approves $13.6bn in spending for Ukraine, divided equally between aid for refugees and military aid for the front. 
March 11: Russian armour enters the northwestern outskirts of Kyiv, but already faces manpower shortages. Putin approves the deployment of up to 16,000 irregular fighters from Syria. 
The EU issues the Versailles Declaration in response to the Ukraine war, calling for member states to strengthen defence spending. 
March 13: Russia broadens its targets westward, firing 30 cruise missiles at a military training base in Yavoriv, 25km (15.5 miles) from the Polish border, killing 35 people. 
March 14: Top Putin aide Viktor Zolotov, who heads the national guard, becomes the first high-ranking Russian to admit the war in Ukraine is not going as planned. 
March 16: Russia bombs a theatre in the southern port city of Mariupol, killing at least 300 civilians sheltering there. 
March 23: NATO estimates that Russia has lost 7,000-15,000 troops in one month of war and that the number of Russian dead, wounded, captured and missing is 40,000. 
Phase 2 – Russia refocuses on the east, as Ukraine launches counteroffensives in the north and south, taking back more than 1,000 settlements. The US and UK send advanced missile systems to Ukraine. 
March 25: Russia says it will focus on consolidating its control over the eastern Ukrainian provinces of Luhansk and Donetsk, in an apparent redefinition of its war aims. 
More than 3.7 million Ukrainians have become refugees. 
March 27: Zelenskyy tells Russian journalists on a video call that he is willing to consider geopolitical neutrality for Ukraine, and to compromise on the status of the eastern Donbas region, which formed part of the pretext for Russia’s invasion. 
March 29: Russian and Ukrainian negotiators meet in Istanbul – their first in-person meeting in more than three weeks. Ukraine puts forward a detailed proposal of neutrality. 
April 1: An Al Jazeera report reveals that Russia is using proxy groups in Syria to recruit fighters for Ukraine. 
April 2: As Russian troops withdraw from Bucha, a town northwest of Kyiv, dozens of apparently civilian corpses are found on the streets. 
April 4: US president Joe Biden calls for Putin to be tried in a war crimes tribunal for the alleged Russian killings of civilians in Bucha. 
April 5: Internally displaced Ukrainians now number 7.1 million. Al Jazeera uncovers testimony from Bucha residents saying they were tortured and their lives threatened by Russian soldiers. 
April 6: The Biden administration prohibits US investment in Russia and calls on the G20 to expel it from the group. 
April 7: Russia fires cluster munitions into the Kramatorsk railway station packed with thousands of evacuees, killing at least 52. 
The UN General Assembly votes to suspend Russia from the organisation’s Human Rights Council. 
April 8: Forensic experts start exhuming bodies in mass graves in Bucha. 
The EU bans imports of Russian coal, depriving Russia of 8 billion euros ($7.97bn) a year. As part of a fifth round of sanctions, the EU also bans imports of Russian lumber, cement, seafood and fertilisers. The EU also bans the export to Russia of jet fuel and sensitive technologies and software. 
European Commission President Ursula Von Der Leyen hands Zelenskyy a questionnaire, kicking off the beginning of Ukraine’s EU membership application process. 
April 14: Ukraine sinks the Russian Black Sea fleet flagship Moskva, after hitting it with two Neptune missiles. 
April 16: Russia’s defence ministry says it controls the port of Mariupol, although fighting continues. 
April 18: Russian forces launch a new, large-scale offensive in east Ukraine to take full control of the Luhansk and Donetsk oblasts. 
April 21: Putin declares victory in the battle for Mariupol, even though some 2,500 Ukrainian marines remain barricaded in the Azovstal steel plant. 
April 28: US Congress revives lend-lease facilities to speed up weapons shipments to Ukraine. President Biden asks Congress to approve a $33bn spending package for Ukraine. 
May 4: Ukrainian and Russian reports say a Ukrainian counteroffensive north and east of Kharkiv has pushed Russian troops 40km (24.9 miles) back from the city, in the first significant Ukrainian success since winning the battle for Kyiv. 
The European Commission unveils a sixth round of sanctions, including a complete import ban on all Russian oil, seaborne and pipeline, crude and refined, effective by the end of the year. 
May 5: Ukrainian Commander-in-Chief Valerii Zaluzhnyi says Ukrainian forces are transitioning to counteroffensive operations around the eastern cities of Kharkiv and Izyum, the first direct Ukrainian military statement of a shift to offensive operations. 
May 11: Ukraine for the first time limits Russian gas transiting its territory to Europe, cutting by a quarter the flow of gas through one of two major pipelines. 
May 16: Ukraine’s defence ministry says its troops have advanced to the Russian border 40km (24.9 miles) north of Kharkiv, and Russian defensive efforts are focusing on preventing an incursion towards Belgorod in Russia. 
May 17: Ukraine’s military declares an end to the Azovstal resistance in Mariupol. 
May 18: The European Commission announces a 220 billion euro ($219bn) plan to ditch all Russian fossil fuels over five years. 
May 19: US Congress approves a $40bn aid package for Ukraine, significantly more than the $33bn Biden initially asked for, about half of which is intended for military aid and supplies. 
May 21: The battle for the city of Severdonetsk in the eastern Luhansk province begins. 
Russia’s defence ministry announces it has full control of Mariupol, following the evacuation of 1,908 defenders of the Azovstal plant there, a month after Putin declared victory over the city. 
May 25: Eduard Basurin, deputy head of the militia of the Russia-backed, self-declared Donetsk People’s Republic, says Russia was temporarily forswearing the strategy of surrounding all Ukraine’s forces in the east with a grand pincer movement, instead focusing on piecemeal isolations. Russian forces also start building secondary lines of defence in Kherson and Zaporizhia, expecting Ukrainian counterattacks. 
May 27: Russian forces advance on Severdonetsk from three different directions and begin direct assaults on built-up partsof the city in the north, taking control of the Mir hotel. 
May 28: Ukraine launches a counteroffensive in Kherson, reportedly bringing Russian forces to a “disadvantageous” defensive position and inflicting heavy losses. 
May 30: After some hesitation, Biden decides to send “more advanced rocket systems” to Ukraine to enable greater precision artillery raids. The US will send GMLRS and High Mobility Artillery Rocket Systems (HIMARS) with 80km (49.7-mile) range rockets. 
May 31: Russian forces occupy the centre of Severdonetsk as Ukrainian troops make a tactical retreat, but fighting continues. 
In the south, Ukrainian forces press a counteroffensive towards Kherson, pushing Russian forces east of the Inhulets river. 
The EU bans Russian oil and petroleum products, following a decision on the sixth package of sanctions against Russia. 
June 2: Kherson oblast military administration head Hennadiy Lahuta reports that the Ukrainian counteroffensive has liberated 20 villages. 
June 9: Putin likens his conquest of Ukraine to Peter the Great’s conquest of what is today northwestern Russia in a war fought against Sweden in 1700-1721. 
June 13: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg appears to suggest that Ukraine will have to accept a loss of sovereignty or territory in return for peace, during a press conference in Finland. 
June 15: Russia cuts gas deliveries to Europe through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline to 40 percent of capacity. 
June 22: Ukraine says it has taken 1,026 settlements back from Russian control. 
June 24: Though there is still rearguard fighting, Luhansk governor Serhiy Haidai says Severodonetsk will be abandoned. 
The EU officially invites Ukraine and Moldova to become candidate countries for EU membership. 
June 27: Russian missiles target a shopping mall in Kremenchuk, central Ukraine, killing at least 18 people. 
Russia defaults on its sovereign debt for the first time since the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917, as a 30-day grace period on $100m of interest payments expires. 
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg says the alliance is to increase its Readiness Force (NRF) from 40,000 to 300,000. 
June 29: NATO formally invites Finland and Sweden to become members of the alliance, after Turkey lifts its veto. 
June 30: After being pounded by Ukrainian missiles, Russian forces withdraw from Snake Island in the Black Sea. 
July 3: Russia claims to have taken Lysychansk, giving it nominal control of Luhansk oblast, though partisan fighting continues. 
Phase 3 – Russia re-expands its goals to include Kherson and Zaporizhia. Ukraine uses missiles to devastate Russian ammunition, bases and command posts deep behind the front lines. 
July 4: Some 40 countries participate in an International Conference on the Restoration of Ukraine in Lugano, Switzerland. Ukrainian prime minister Denys Shmyhal says $750bn will be needed. 
July 17: Zelenskyy says Russia has now fired 3,000 cruise missiles against his country. 
July 20: In an interview with Russian newspaper Ria Novosti, Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov said Russia had departed from its official goal of occupying the two eastern regions of Luhansk and Donetsk, saying Zaporizhia and Kherson in the south are also important to take. 
July 21: In the southern Kherson region, Ukraine says it has destroyed a Russian ammunition warehouse. 
July 22: Russia and Ukraine sign a UN-brokered agreement allowing the export of Ukrainian grain through the Black Sea. 
July 27: Ukrainian forces damage the Antonivka vehicle and rail bridges using HIMARS rocket artillery, rendering them unusable for heavy military transport. This helps cut off forward Russian positions in Kherson. 
July 29: At least 50 Ukrainian PoWs are killed when their detention facility is blown up in Olenivka, Donetsk. Russia says Ukraine targeted its own men. Ukraine says Russia blew up its own penal colony “to cover up war crimes”. 
July 31: A presumed Ukrainian drone flies into Russia’s Black Sea fleet headquarters in Sevastopol on Russia’s Navy Day, wounding five people. 
August 1: The first ship loaded with Ukrainian grain leaves port following a July 22 agreement to lift a Russian blockade. 
August 6: Ukraine’s southern command says its forces destroyed 39 Russian rocket launchers and an ammunition warehouse. 
August 7: Ukraine’s southern command reports the destruction of 24 Russian multiple rocket launchers, a T-62 tank, five armoured vehicles and an ammunition warehouse in attacks against Berislavsky and one other location in Kherson oblast. 
August 9: An estimated nine Russian warplanes were destroyed on the ground at the airbase of Saky in Crimea, 225km (136.7 miles) behind the front line, in what would appear to be the first significant Ukrainian attack on a Russian base on the peninsula. 
Ukraine also destroys Russian ammunition warehouses in Novooleksiivka in Crimea, 150km (93.2 miles) south of the front line, and a command post at Maksyma Horkoho on the southwestern Kherson coast. 
August 16: A series of explosions shake the village of Mayskoye in Crimea, as a suspected Russian ammunition depot goes up in flames, forcing the evacuation of 3,000 people. Russia calls it “a result of sabotage” without assigning blame. 
August 18: UN chief Antonio Guterres warns damage to the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power station would be “suicide”, as Ukraine and Russia accuse each other of shelling close to the plant. 
August 20: Darya Dugina, daughter of a prominent Russian ultranationalist Alexander Dugin, is killed in a car bomb blast near Moscow, in what may have been an assassination attempt on her father. Ukraine denied Russia’s accusations that it was behind the attack. 
August 24: Ukraine marks its day of independence from Soviet rule and the six-month anniversary of Russia’s full-scale invasion. Public celebrations are cancelled amid fears that Russia could escalate attacks to coincide with the day, but Zelenskyy gives a defiant speech, saying Ukraine had been “reborn” when Russia invaded: “We don’t care what army you have, we only care about our land. We will fight for it until the end.” 


Skip links 
Ukraine debates mobilising more men to fight Russia after two years of war 
Russia seems ready to increase its attacking army after Vladimir Putin was re-elected, leaving Kyiv little choice but to do the same. 
In a fight taking place far from the front lines, Ukrainian lawmakers are debating a bill that could make or break their country’s fortunes in this war. 
The bill would raise up to half a million new soldiers, increasing Ukraine’s standing army by half. 
The increase is 10 times as many new men as the 12 brigades Ukraine raised for its 2023 counteroffensive, and it could enable the country to finally break Russia’s stranglehold on its southern regions, cutting the front in half and forcing the Kremlin into a negotiation on Kyiv’s terms. 
Ukraine may have little choice because it is currently fighting a war of attrition experts say favours the side with greater manpower resources – Russia. It also seems likely that Russian President Vladimir Putin would raise more troops after his re-election. 
“Putin is… planning to mobilise more men, once the election is over,” Tim Less, a lecturer at Cambridge University’s Centre for Geopolitics, told Al Jazeera. 
“Among other things, he has banned the exit of fighting-age men from the country and banned the antiwar candidate, Boris Nadezhdin, from standing in the election, for fear he may generate opposition to the war effort,” said Less. “Putin appears to have concluded that further mobilisation is essential to press home Russia’s advantage on the battlefield and that this is what he will do.” 
With US aid stalled – perhaps permanently – by congressional Republicans, Putin may have concluded that 2024 was his year to win the war and that forces the moment to its crisis for Ukraine. 
“It’s been two years of hell for us,” said Inna Sovsun, who sits on the Security, Defence and Intelligence Committee of the Verkhovna Rada, Ukraine’s parliament, where the bill is being discussed. 
Her partner has been fighting on the front lines since Russia’s invasion and she supports raising more troops, but only if there’s an end in sight for those who’ve already served. 
“There are people who are leading normal lives. We would like to know there is a point in the future when he will be demobilised and someone else will take his place. This is being hotly debated and there is no answer right now,” she told Al Jazeera. 
Ukraine mobilised men over the age of 27 when Russia launched a full-scale invasion of the country on February 24, 2022. But only a third of its million men and women in uniform are on active combat duty, facing what Kyiv estimates are 462,000 Russian soldiers, and Russia’s Putin claims are 617,000. 
The rest of Ukraine’s personnel are in supporting roles, including tens of thousands posted to the currently quiet northern border with Belarus, from where Moscow’s original main thrust towards Kyiv came, lest it should be repeated. 
A more efficient rotation of those in uniform might fill some combat roles, but not enough, says the military. 
There are also some tens of thousands to be gleaned from closing loopholes to the draft. 
After Russia’s invasion, young men rushed to enrol in PhD programmes at private colleges and there was an uptick in marriages to women with minor disabilities. The committee is closing these and other exemptions. 
But that is where the low-hanging fruit ends and the difficult decisions begin. 
Last December, after the counteroffensive failed to execute his strategy, then-Commander-in-Chief Valerii Zaluzhnyi put the matter on the table, demanding half a million more soldiers. 
“This is a significant number,” Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said after meeting his top generals, apparently unconvinced that the economy could spare them, or allies could train and equip them. 
“I told them I need more arguments to support this direction, because this is a matter of people first and foremost,” Zelenskyy said. 
The Verkhovna Rada had already passed a bill in the spring of 2023, lowering the conscription age from 27 to 25. 
Zelenskyy didn’t sign it, and last month he dismissed Zaluzhny – it is believed, partly due to this disagreement. 
“What Zelenskyy is actually doing is trying to leverage more arms from the West, which he sees either as an alternative to mobilisation or a precondition for this, while allowing his new commander-in-chief, Oleksandr Syrskii, to assess the situation on the ground,” said Less. 
Sovsun believed the lowering of the draft age is a foregone conclusion and parliament “will get it done by the end of March”. 
The committee has discarded punitive measures included in a January 4 draft seen as human rights violations, such as freezing draft dodgers’ bank accounts or preventing them from selling property – though a travel ban outside Ukraine will likely remain. 
The debate now focuses on creating incentives for enlisting, said Sovsun, such as guaranteeing six-monthly rotations and a term limit of 36 months. 
“The 36-month [term limit] is still in play in a very specific way – we don’t particularly like the wording – that those who serve will have the right to demobilize after 36 months based on the decision of the commander-in-chief,” she said. “Basically, if the decision is not taken it doesn’t happen. [We want it] to be automatic.” 
The measure could mean an exodus of experienced troops in March 2025, but Sovsun believes it is necessary. 
“There are some units that have been on the front line for 24 months. That is extremely difficult and it’s inefficient. People need rest,” she said. 
In theory, Ukraine has a pool of 10 million men aged 18-61 it can draw on to replace demobilised troops. In practice that number may be smaller. 
Ukraine had a population of 48 million in 2001, but as much as a quarter of it is willingly or unwillingly under occupation, and many people fled from unoccupied western regions, too, when the invasion happened. 
Then there is the human factor Zelenskyy alluded to. 
“People are extremely tired. [The war] has taken its toll on everybody, and I started thinking, how many years can people live like this?” Sovsun said. 
A NATO-Russia war? 
Perhaps partly to boost Ukrainian morale, and to send a message to Russia, French President Emmanuel Macron on February 26 raised the issue of sending in NATO troops – raising the risk of a Russia-NATO war. 
While there was “no consensus” on the sending of Western ground troops to Ukraine, “nothing should be excluded. We will do whatever it takes to ensure that Russia cannot win this war,” Macron said. 
“[Macron’s] generals and members of his cabinet have spoken specifically about the idea of deploying forces in supporting roles – clearing mines, manning defences and training Ukrainian soldiers, for example – to free up the Ukrainians to confront the Russians on the front line,” said Less. 
Russia may see it differently, preparing to face the West directly. 
“The Kremlin has for over a decade now … spoken of a war with the West,” Rory Finnin, a Ukraine historian at Cambridge University, told Al Jazeera. 
“We may not have been interested in that war, but clearly their war is interested in us. I don’t think it’s simply a war against Ukraine … Russia wants to see dysfunction and division in the West. It’s the only way it can amplify its own power.” 
Jade McGlynn, a Russia expert at the War Studies Department of King’s College London, agrees that Russia is psychologically prepared to fight the West directly. 
“If the West had been totally against Russia [after the Cold War], that would have been different, but sometimes there are things that are worse than being hated. For example, being ignored,” McGlynn told Al Jazeera. “And that keeps coming up.” 
For now, though, Ukrainians have to count on their strength alone. 
“There is no justice in war,” said Sovsun. “There is no just way to say who should serve and who shouldn’t and there is no fair way of doing this, but at least it should be more equally distributed, this weight of war.” 


You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. 
‘Jamming’: How Electronic Warfare Is Reshaping Ukraine’s Battlefields 
Drones have become a critical weapon for both sides, but a lack of coordination among troops has put Ukraine at a disadvantage. 
The Ukrainian soldier swore and tore off his headset. His video monitor had gone blurry at first, the landscape of shattered trees and shell craters barely visible, before blacking out completely. The Russians had jammed the signal of his drone as it was flying outside the town of Kreminna in eastern Ukraine. 
“Some days everything goes smoothly, other days the equipment breaks, the drones are fragile and there is jamming,” said the soldier, who goes by the call sign DJ and was speaking from his underground outpost a few miles from the front line. 
For a while, the Ukrainians enjoyed a honeymoon period with their self-detonating drones that were used like homemade missiles. The weapons seemed like an effective alternative to artillery shells for striking Russian forces. 
Now, the bad days are starting to outweigh the good ones: electronic countermeasures have become one of the Russian military’s most formidable weapons after years of honing their capabilities. 
Electronic warfare remains a hidden hand in much of the war, and like Ukraine’s disadvantage in troop numbers and ammunition supplies, Ukraine suffers in this area as well in comparison to Russia. Russia has more jamming equipment capable of overpowering Ukrainian signals by broadcasting on the same frequencies at higher power. It also exhibits better coordination among their units. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. 


The comments section is closed. To submit a letter to the editor for publication, write to letters@nytimes.com. 
Maps: Tracking the Russian Invasion of Ukraine 
Share full article 
468 
Ukraine 
Where Ukraine has mounted multiple attacks in broad offensive 
Ukraine has launched major attacks against invading Russian forces at multiple points of the southern and eastern front lines this week, the apparent beginning of a long-planned counteroffensive with enormous stakes for the direction of the war. 
Sources: Imagery of the fighting; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. The New York Times 
The most recent battle erupted in Ukraine's south, in an unforgiving landscape with little cover, near the town of Orikhiv. Ukraine’s military on Friday confirmed fighting south of Orikhiv, and footage released by pro-Russian military bloggers and verified by The New York Times showed fierce fighting. 
Military analysts have long anticipated that Ukraine will focus on this area to try to sever Russia’s connection between Crimea and Eastern Ukraine. Russia has laid mine belts and dug layer upon layer of defensive trenches to repel Ukrainian attacks. 
Ukraine was also attacking about 60 miles east, across the plains near the town of Velyka Novosilka, Hanna Maliar, a Ukrainian deputy defense minister, said on Thursday. Ukrainian officials have also said they are attacking Russian positions on the outskirts of Bakhmut, which fell to Russian forces last month after the longest and bloodiest battle of the war. 
While The Times geolocated images to verify the approximate locations of the fighting, few reliable details can verify how the fighting is going, or exactly how far Ukraine has entered Russian-held territory. Each side is presenting its own take on the uptick in fighting, and Ukrainian officials have cloaked the operation in secrecy. 
How Russia advanced on Bakhmut in its monthslong assault on the city 
Russia claimed victory in Bakhmut on Sunday after nearly a year of brutal fighting in one of the longest and bloodiest battles of the war amid ongoing Ukrainian counterattacks that are retaking territory to the north and south of the city. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. As of May 21 
Ukrainian officials denied Russia’s claim to have complete control of Bakhmut, but they acknowledged that only a small contingent of Ukrainian soldiers is defending a southwestern pocket of the city. 
Despite deploying tens of thousands of newly mobilized troops into eastern Ukraine this winter, Russia spent months trying, and failing, to encircle Bakhmut from the north and south. As Russian forces closed in on the only remaining highway into the city in early March, Ukraine’s military mounted a counterattack that pushed Russian troops back, preserving a crucial supply line and allowing Ukrainian forces to continue defending the city. 
Russia shifted its focus to attacks on the city center, inching forward block-by-block and backing Ukrainian troops into an ever-shrinking pocket in the west of the city. Even with Ukrainian forces recapturing territory on the northern and southern flanks around Bakhmut over the past week, Russia continued to advance in the southwest of the city. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. The New York Times 
Although analysts say Bakhmut has limited strategic significance to the wider war, the city became the site of some of the deadliest urban combat of the war, with thousands of casualties for both Russia and Ukraine. 
Despite the high cost, Kyiv maintains that defending Bakhmut for this long has bogged down the Russian army, providing Ukraine with valuable time to train and rearm its own troops for a coming counteroffensive. 
Russia’s attacks in Bakhmut initially relied heavily on the Wagner group, a private paramilitary force, which has recruited tens of thousands of Russian prisoners to fight in the war in exchange for high salaries and their freedom — if they survived. But the prolonged fight has depleted Russia’s supply of prisoner recruits and forced it to use more of its professional recruits, according to Ukrainian officials. 
Although Russia has declared victory in Bakhmut, most of the city is in ruins, with its infrastructure devastated, and no access to electricity or running water. For the past year, the Ukrainian government urged residents to evacuate the city of nearly 80,000 and by March, it estimated that only around 4,000 people remained. 
Ukrainian forces retreat from Soledar after months of fighting 
Ukraine confirmed that its forces had withdrawn from Soledar, a small salt-mining town in the Donetsk region of eastern Ukraine, after months of fierce artillery battles that have destroyed much of the town. 
Russian control of Soledar brings its forces closer to the city of Bakhmut, just six miles southwest, where one of the bloodiest battles of the war continues. Both sides have thrown masses of troops into the fight there for months, suffering heavy casualties. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
Soledar is Russia’s first notable victory since its grinding gains in eastern Ukraine over the summer. In the fall, Ukraine executed a string of successful counteroffensives, retaking vast swathes of northeastern Ukraine and major ground in the south. In November, Russia withdrew from the southern city of Kherson, as it became too costly to defend. 
There have been few changes in territorial control since then, as the pace of the war has slowed over winter. But renewed Russian assaults are expected in the spring as Russia deploys more of its mobilized recruits to the frontlines. 
Ukraine has reclaimed more than half the territory Russia has taken this year 
Ukraine has reclaimed 54 percent of the land Russia has captured since the beginning of the war, according to a New York Times analysis of data provided by the Institute for the Study of War. 
Sources: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project Note: Areas controlled by Russia and reclaimed by Ukraine are as of Nov. 13. The New York Times 
Ukraine reclaimed an important city this past weekend when Russian troops retreated from Kherson after nearly nine months of occupation. The city was a critical element in Russia’s goal of controlling the southern coast. 
Ukraine’s military has had significant momentum since September in pushing Russia out of the northeast and southern parts of the county. Russia currently controls about 18 percent of Ukraine. That area includes much of the Donetsk and Luhansk Provinces in the east, as well as Crimea, which it illegally annexed in 2014. 
Russian forces leave Kherson after months of occupation 
Ukrainian troops re-entered the southern city of Kherson on Friday after nearly nine months of Russian occupation. The city was a key link in Russia’s effort to control the southern coastline along the Black Sea. 
Sources: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. Areas controlled by Russia and reclaimed by Ukraine as of Nov. 11 The New York Times 
The Antonivsky Bridge, the main crossing over the Dnipro River into Kherson, was heavily damaged in an explosion on Friday morning, which would make it difficult for Ukrainian troops to pursue Russian soldiers east of the river. But it also gave residents a measure of confidence that Russian troops could not easily return. 
The next major river crossing, at the Kakhovka hydroelectric dam, was also significantly damaged. The road over the dam, which is about 30 miles upstream from the Antonivsky Bridge, was one of the last major crossings left to Russian forces. 
Russia announces a retreat from Kherson 
Ukrainian troops were advancing in the south on Thursday after Russia’s announcement of a retreat from the strategic port city of Kherson and the surrounding area along the western bank of the Dnipro River. 
Sources: Russian Officials, Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. Areas controlled by Russia and reclaimed by Ukraine as of Nov. 9 The New York Times 
Many details about the retreat remained unknown on Thursday. It was unclear how many of the estimated 40,000 soldiers sent by Moscow to the region remained, how far along they were in their retreat and whether a contingent had been left behind to fight in the city. 
Ukrainian officials said that Moscow’s announcement of a withdrawal from the capital of the Kherson region could be a trap meant to lure their forces into brutal urban combat. 
Military analysts said they believed that Russia would try to maintain defensive positions near the banks of the Dnipro River to protect its withdrawal route. With only one major road over a dam north of the city left to the Russians, they have relied on a series of ferries and pontoons to move back and forth across the river. 
Where Russian missiles hit Ukraine 
Russian missiles struck nearly every region of Ukraine on Monday morning, killing at least 11 people and injuring dozens more in the broadest attack since the early days of Moscow’s invasion. 
Source: Ukrainian military statement on Oct. 10 
Most of the targets were civilian infrastructure sites that provide heat and electricity, according to Oleksiy Arestovych, an adviser to Ukraine’s president, and at least five regions were left without power. But the targets also included residential neighborhoods, with strikes hitting an apartment building in Zaporizhzhia and a playground in the capital, Kyiv. 
Source: New York Times reporting 
Several missiles struck Kyiv in the largest attack on the city in months. A number of civilian areas were targeted, blowing out windows, setting vehicles ablaze and forcing residents to spend several hours in basements and subway stations as air raid sirens blared. 
In a televised address on Monday, President Vladimir V. Putin said Russia had targeted “energy, military command and communications facilities of Ukraine” in response to Saturday’s attack on the Kerch Bridge, which links Russia with Crimea. He warned that “no one should have any doubt” that Russia will defend itself. 
Mr. Putin has been facing increasing pressure from pro-war nationalists, as his forces in Ukraine faced one retreat after another in recent weeks, losing some 1,200 square miles of hard-won territory in the south and east. Russian hardliners celebrated on Monday, saying the attacks were a long-awaited sign that the Kremlin was intensifying its attacks against Ukraine’s critical infrastructure. 
Pressing on two fronts, Ukraine extends its gains in the east and makes a sudden advance in the south 
The dramatic explosion Saturday on the bridge that served as a critical Russian supply line was another blow to the Russian military coming after weeks of losing ground to Ukrainian forces. 
Through the summer and spring, Ukrainian officials said repeatedly that the Ukrainian army would counterattack Russia at its most vulnerable position, in southern Ukraine. But when the counteroffensive came, the Ukrainians attacked in two locations simultaneously: in the south, as expected, and in a surprise advance in Ukraine’s northeast. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. The New York Times 
The twin counterstrikes shifted the momentum in the war to Ukraine after months of bloody stalemate and signaled to Western allies its capability to reclaim occupied territory, lessening the pressure to negotiate a settlement that would leave Russia controlling land it captured. President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia responded by annexing and declaring four provinces of Ukraine part of Russia and saying he would defend them by any means, a thinly veiled threat of a nuclear strike. 
Ukraine’s double offensive takes advantage of the geometry of the war along a semicircle of frontline. The Russian military cannot quickly shift forces between the two fronts in the counteroffensive as it must move outside the semicircle, while the Ukrainian army, inside the circle, can move in shorter, straighter lines. 
Ukraine has continued to reclaim occupied territory in the northeast, east and south. The southern offensive began on Aug. 29 with M113 armored personnel carriers, provided by the United States, advancing on Russian forces on the western bank of the Dnipro River, isolated from supply lines by the broad waterway. After a slow start, the assault led to the recapturing of a swath of territory in early October. In the northeast, Ukraine routed Russian forces. Ukraine reclaimed two key railway hubs, Izium and Lyman. 
Across both fronts, Ukraine has recaptured more than 1,200 square miles over the two weeks that ended on Oct. 6. 
Daily Ukrainian territorial gains 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. The New York Times 
Most of the territorial gains were made in the northeast until a week ago, when the Ukrainian army began reclaiming towns and villages in the south. Anticipating an attack in the south, the Russian army prepared better defenses than it had in the northeast, a Ukrainian commander said. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. The New York Times 
Risks for Ukraine include advancing too quickly, outpacing the ability to resupply soldiers and exposing them to counterattacks, military analysts say. Other risks loom, too, such as moving too slowly. After the counteroffensive began, Russia announced its first wartime draft since World War II, and Ukraine has said some of those new recruits have been sent to the front, reinforcing Russian lines. 
Ukraine forces a Russian retreat with a rapid advance in the south 
After making modest territorial gains in southern Ukraine over the past several weeks, the Ukrainian military’s advance has accelerated in the past few days, even as Russia plans to mobilize thousands of new troops to join the front lines. 
Counterattacks in the south have resulted in Russia hurriedly retreating from positions it has controlled since the early days of the war. In the Kherson region, Ukrainian forces are reported to have broken through near Dudchany, a settlement on the west bank of the Dnipro River, about 17 miles behind where the front line was a week ago. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. The New York Times 
Analysts said that the Ukrainian counteroffensive could have a significant impact on the shape of the war. The counterattacks in Kherson could have a “domino effect” in the region and allow Ukraine to advance on the city of Kherson in the near future, according to a research note from Konrad Muzyka, a military analyst at Rochan Consulting. 
Kherson is the only major city that Russia controls on the west bank of the Dnipro River. Even though Russia’s troops are dug in after months of controlling the area, their supplies and logistical support are on the other side of the river, complicating its defense. 
Building on their success in recapturing Lyman last week, Ukrainian forces have continued to advance in the east and have reportedly entered the region of Luhansk, which had been entirely occupied by Russian troops for several months. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
The counterattack in Luhansk is a major setback for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Luhansk is one of the four regions that Mr. Putin declared Russia was annexing last week, despite the move being widely denounced by leaders in Ukraine and the West. Ukraine controls towns in all of these regions, and the Kremlin has admitted that it has not yet determined the borders of the annexed territory. 
Pressed by Ukrainian forces, Russia retreats from Lyman 
Russian forces on Saturday withdrew from the eastern city of Lyman, a strategic rail hub, putting more pressure on the Kremlin and giving Ukraine’s military a foothold to try to advance farther east. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
The loss of Lyman, a city in Donetsk Province with a pre-war population of 20,000, is particularly poorly timed for the Kremlin after it illegally declared its annexation of four regions in Ukraine — including the region that is home to Lyman. 
Hours after Ukraine’s defense ministry said its forces were entering the city, Russia’s Ministry of Defense said it had made the decision to pull out of Lyman. Confirmation of the withdrawal staved off a potential worst-case scenario for the Kremlin in which Russian troops were trapped in the city. 
The next target, if the Ukrainian military continues its advance, would likely be the city of Svatove, north east of Lyman, according to analysts. 
Ukraine is on the verge of encircling Lyman, a major rail hub 
Even as Russia announced it would annex four Ukrainian provinces, its military faced continued pressure on the ground. Ukrainian forces are close to encircling the city of Lyman, a major rail hub, in a continuation of their eastern counteroffensive that has reclaimed thousands of square miles of territory this month. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
The Ukrainian military has closed in on Lyman from the west and south, aiming to fully envelop the city and cut off the remaining Russian troops. The routes out of Lyman appear to be controlled by Ukraine or within its artillery range, complicating a potential Russian withdrawal. 
The loss of Lyman would be a serious setback for Russia. The city has been key to transporting supplies to Moscow’s troops in eastern Ukraine. If Ukraine controlled those supply lines, it could support further Ukrainian attacks in western Luhansk, including on nearby Lysychansk, one of the largest cities Russia has captured since the invasion began. 
While Ukraine still retains momentum in the east, the imminent arrival of thousands of newly mobilized Russian troops could shift the balance there. 
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has announced a mobilization that could call up 300,000 civilians into military service. The first of those recruits are already arriving at the frontlines, according to Serhiy Haidai, the regional governor of Luhansk. 
By holding control of Lyman for as long as possible, Russia has bought time for these mobilized troops to arrive at new defensive positions in Luhansk. But this strategy has come at a “very high cost,” according to a research note from Konrad Musyka, a military analyst at Rochan Consulting. 
In southern Ukraine, recent Ukrainian advances have slowed, with no major territorial changes in the past week. The Ukrainian military has continued to pressure Russia by striking military and logistical targets around Kherson. And on Friday, a Russian strike killed at least 25 civilians who were waiting at a checkpoint and bus stop in Zaporizhzhia. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
Mr. Putin has illegally declared that four provinces of Ukraine — Donetsk, Kherson, Luhansk, and Zaporizhzhia — will become part of Russia following hastily arranged sham referendums. Ukraine still controls areas of all four provinces, and the move has been met with international condemnation. 
Areas are approximate. Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
After Russia’s military abandoned efforts to capture Kyiv in April, it shifted to a narrower war in eastern Ukraine, with some success. Russian forces inched forward for months, relying on brutal and indiscriminate artillery fire to flatten cities and gain ground. 
Ukraine regained the same amount of territory, and more, in just the past week. 
The lightning speed of Ukraine’s counteroffensive in the Kharkiv region surprised even Ukrainian officials, who were still working on Monday to consolidate control of the areas they had seized. Russian defenses in the area failed, reshaping the contours of the war and putting a beleaguered Russian military on the defensive. 
“There were too few troops to defend the area,” said Konrad Muzyka, a military analyst and director of Rochan Consulting. “Once the Ukrainian armed forces crossed the first line of defense — if there was one — then the entire front collapsed, as there were no real forces to face Ukrainians.” 
Russia still holds vast swaths of Ukraine, including critical cities and towns throughout the Luhansk region that its military had captured over the past several months. One critical question is whether Ukraine can extend its recent gains to the east, into Luhansk, where Russian forces will try to reestablish a defensive line. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
Ukraine’s capture of Izium, a rail hub that Russian forces abandoned on Saturday, deprives Moscow of a key military supply route and increases the transport links available to Kyiv’s troops. 
Ukrainian forces have also made more modest advances in the southern Kherson region over the past several weeks. On Monday, the Ukrainian military claimed it had retaken more territory there, although those claims could not be independently confirmed. Russian soldiers west of the Dnipro River appear to be increasingly isolated as Ukrainian attacks erode Russian defenses and shell bridges over the river. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
Ukrainian officials claimed their forces had recaptured several settlements, including Hoptivka near the Russian border and Chkalovske near the city of Kharkiv, though these claims could not be independently verified. Additional statements from the Ukrainian military claim that Russian troops were withdrawing from Borshchova and Artemivka near Kharkiv as well as Svatove in the Luhansk region. 
Ukrainian forces have also recaptured Vovchansk in the Kharkiv region near the border with Russia. The settlement lies on a key line of communication from a Russian military hub into northeastern Ukraine. 
A map released by Russia of areas it claims to control in the Kharkiv region appeared to confirm that most of its forces have withdrawn to the eastern side of the Oskil River, which runs south from the Russian border, with Izium on the west and the Donbas region on the east. 
In stunning retreat, Russia loses key northeastern cities to Ukrainian offensive 
Russia’s front lines have collapsed in a crucial pocket of northeast Ukraine, ceding a wide area to a surprise Ukrainian offensive. Russian forces abandoned a critical logistics hub, the city of Izium, a loss that could lead to a turning point in the war. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project, Ukrainian and Russian officials The New York Times 
While the exact extent of Ukrainian control remained fluid, the Russian Ministry of Defense confirmed the broad retreat from Izium and the town of Balakliya on Saturday, just a day after saying it was reinforcing the area. Russia’s statement framed the loss as a strategic retreat meant to reinforce its position in the eastern Donbas region. 
The Ukrainian offensive has reshaped what was becoming a grinding war of attrition. One village after another has fallen, including the west side of the town of Kupiansk, according to George Barros, an analyst for the Institute for the Study of War, and images of Ukrainian troops. 
Russia’s invasion of Ukraine continues to be dogged by manpower and logistical issues. Russian forces in the northeast left their flanks undefended, perhaps because of growing shortages of troops, exhausted conscripts and low morale. 
Ukraine’s advance in the northern front comes as it continues to push against the Russian line in the south near Kherson, where Ukrainian gains have been more modest. 
In the last five days, the Ukrainian military has rapidly advanced into territory previously held by Russia. Fires detected by NASA’s satellites in the region may show evidence of the battles that accompanied the Ukrainian advance. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project, Ukrainian and Russian officials (extent of Russian advance), NASA’s Fire Information for Resource Management System (fire detections) The New York Times 
Far fewer fires were detected west of the Oskil River on Saturday, indicating a break in the fighting as Russian forces retreated and Ukraine regained control. 
Ukraine rapidly advances around a key northeastern city 
Ukraine’s military made significant advances in recent days near the northeastern city of Izium, a key Russian stronghold, according to military analysts and geolocated photos and videos. The breakthrough — possibly some 50 kilometers in just a few days — threatened to encircle Russian forces, which appeared to be caught by surprise. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
The progress of the Ukrainian counteroffensive in the east, paired with slower, more limited gains in the south, represents some of the most significant changes to the frontlines of the war in months. 
The exact positions of Ukrainian forces around Izium could not be independently confirmed. The Russian military released a video with what it said were reinforcements headed to the Kharkiv area, but it has not made detailed statements about the status of the fighting. 
But military analysts, satellite detections and photos and videos of Ukrainian forces indicate that they moved rapidly east toward Kupiansk in recent days, possibly getting close to the outskirts of the city. Capturing Kupiansk could threaten Russian supply lines to Izium. And the Ukrainian military claimed to capture the city of Balakliya, prompting Russian military bloggers to complain that Russia was poorly prepared. 
The situation is fluid, and further Ukrainian gains may be more heavily contested as Russia stabilizes its response. 
Ukraine’s counteroffensive in the east came in parallel to a push in the south that it had prepared for months, around the regional capital, Kherson. Russia was forced to redeploy troops to shore up its defenses in this area, which may have left its remaining forces in the east more thinly spread. 
Ukrainian advances in the south have been slower. Ukrainian troops are fighting to push Russian troops back from the western side of the Dnipro river, which Russia has controlled since the first week of the invasion. After 12 days of intense fighting and shelling, Ukrainian forces have reclaimed a number of small settlements along the frontline. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
Despite the successes, Ukrainian officials have warned that it will be a slow grind to reclaim more territory. Russian forces have shifted to defensive positions and have heavily mined the surrounding area. 
The advances follow weeks of Ukrainian strikes on Russian equipment behind the frontlines, including ammunition depots and command posts. 
Ukrainian counterattacks edge closer to Kherson 
While Russia concentrates the bulk of its combat forces on its offensive aimed at taking control of the eastern Donbas region, Ukraine has staged a string of successful counterattacks in southern Ukraine on another critical front in the war. 
Ukrainian counterattacks had pushed Russian forces back 10 miles from Mykolaiv’s southern district. 
Pervomaiske 
Mykolaiv 
A number of small settlements east of Mykolaiv had been reclaimed by Ukrainian forces. 
Mykolaiv 
Novomykolaivka 
Dnipro River 
Progress had slowed for Ukraine as Russia moved its troops to defensive positions to hold back against counterattacks. 
The most recent Ukrainian counterattacks moved its forces to within about 10 miles of the city of Kherson. 
This week 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. Dates shown are April 4, May 2, May 30 and June 28. The New York Times 
While the fight in eastern Ukraine has taken a heavy toll on both armies, with thousands of casualties, the fight to reclaim the vast stretches of the south controlled by Russia are critical to Ukraine’s survival as an economically viable, independent state. 
Ukrainian forces are attacking Russian positions along multiple fronts west of the Dnipro River and have made significant gains in the Kherson region. Russian forces seized the territory in the first weeks of the war and have been steadily fortifying their positions. 
The Ukrainians have broken through the outer perimeter defenses of the Russians outside of the city of Kherson, the regional capital, and have taken back several towns and villages. 
However, the Ukrainian losses in the east and the limited supply of Western weapons — along with soldiers trained to use them — have slowed the Ukrainian counteroffensive. And as Ukrainian forces start to come up against Russians dug into defensive positions, military analysts say it could be a long bloody struggle to recapture populated urban centers. 
The Russians have staged several attacks seeking to thwart the Ukrainian counteroffensive, but a senior U.S. defense department official said this week that the Ukrainians have so far been able to largely hold onto their gains. The Ukrainian military has said it is not naming all the villages and towns it is fighting in, in order to maintain operational security. 
The city of Kherson sits in the delta of the Dnipro River, which runs the length of Ukraine and essentially divides the country along an east-west axis. Kherson is the only city Russia controls west of the river. It provides a vital staging ground for Russian forces across the south, with rail lines linking it to Crimea to the south and Russian-occupied territories to the east. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. 
Russia continues to take steps to “Russify” the population, by introducing the ruble, cutting the region off from Ukrainian internet and cellular providers and issuing Russian passports. 
But even as the Russian proxy leaders there continue to talk about plans to formally integrate the Kherson region with Russia through a referendum or some other method, a growing insurgency is challenging their efforts to consolidate power. Ukrainian guerilla fighters have assassinated Kremlin-approved local leaders, sabotaged Russian infrastructure and assisted the Ukrainian military in targeting Russian forces behind enemy lines. 
Russia launches barrage of missiles across Ukraine 
Russian forces launched a large-scale cruise missile attack on locations across Ukraine on Saturday and Sunday, Ukrainian officials said, in one of the largest and most coordinated airstrikes in weeks. The missiles were launched from bombers in Belarusian airspace, from warships in the Black Sea and from aircraft flying over the Caspian Sea. 
SEA 
CRIMEA 
BLACK SEA 
Sources: Ukrainian military statements on June 25 and 26. Note: Aircraft paths are approximate based on Ukrainian intelligence statements. The New York Times 
Ukrainian intelligence said that six Russian Tu-22M3 strike bombers took off from Shaykovka airfield in Russia’s Kaluga region, flying over Smolensk, before entering Belarusian airspace. Once they were within about 30 miles of the Ukrainian border, officials said, they fired at least 12 cruise missiles before returning to Russian airspace. The missiles struck targets in the northern part of the country, the military said. 
Tupolev Tu-22M 
This long-range bomber was first put into mass production in 1978. 
139 ft. 
Tupolev Tu-22M 
This long-range bomber was first put into mass production in 1978. 
139 ft. 
Source: tupolev.ru The New York Times 
The mayor of the southern city of Mykolaiv, Oleksandr Sienkevych, also said via telegram that Russian forces hit civilian infrastructure with missiles launched from Russian-occupied territory. 
Russia unleashed a new round of missiles at Kyiv on Sunday, hitting an apartment building, killing at least one person, officials said. Another explosion damaged a nearby kindergarten. This was the first attack on the Ukrainian capital in weeks. A spokesman for Ukraine’s Air Force Command said that the long-range missiles were fired from aircraft flying over the Caspian Sea, which lies more than 900 miles southeast of Kyiv. 
How Russia regained momentum in eastern Ukraine 
After weeks of grinding advances in the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine, Russia is on the verge of claiming a significant victory, the city of Sievierodonetsk. Here is where Russia has gained ground in recent weeks and where Russian forces are attacking now. 
Sources: Ukrainian military statements in the past week; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. Note: Russian advance as of June 21. 
Sievierodonetsk is under an intense Russian assault that has destroyed all of the bridges that connect the city to Ukraine-held territory. The remaining Ukrainian defenders in the city are surrounded in a chemical plant, recalling the final battle for Mariupol, where fighters held out in a steel plant. 
Russia’s slow but steady progress in this stage of the war reflects a change in strategy. In late April, Russia’s limited supply of troops were split across many different fronts, and its progress ground to a halt. But by redeploying troops to concentrate on a narrow target, Russia has reestablished momentum and made a series of important territorial gains. 
These maps show the growth of Russian troops in the Donbas over the past few months, according to an analysis by Henry Schlottman, an independent military analyst. 
Troops that were withdrawn from Kyiv and northern Ukraine began to mass in Izium. 
Troops in Popasna had pushed north in an effort to encircle Sievierodonetsk. 
June 13 
Sources: Henry Schlottman, independent military analyst; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project. Notes: Circle size of Russian troops are proportional to the approximate strength of units in that location. The New York Times 
Along with massing forces around Sievierodonetsk, Russia has used brutally destructive tactics to gain territory. Relentless and indiscriminate artillery fire has flattened areas of the city, clearing the way for ground troops to be sent in later. 
The end of the fight for Mariupol in late May freed up thousands of Russian troops to be redeployed. Many were sent to the frontline around Popasna, where Russia made one of its fastest advances in the Donbas. Ukrainian defenses crumbled north of the city and allowed Russian forces to push toward the main highway to Lysychansk, threatening one of two routes for civilian evacuations out of the city. 
Victory in Sievierodonetsk and Lysychansk would see Russia claim full control of the Luhansk region, one of the two areas that make up the Donbas. It currently only controls about 60 percent of the Donetsk region, the other area in the Donbas, and military analysts expect progress there to be slow. 
But after weeks of little movement, Russia has made incremental progress from Izium to Sloviansk. Fighting is currently underway for the control of Dolyna, a small settlement located just off the main highway, and Russia continues to amass forces in Lyman ahead of an expected push into Sloviansk from the east. 
Sloviansk remains a key target for Russia. Capturing it could allow Russia to encircle Ukrainian troops in the east. 
Sources: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project; Rochan Consulting The New York Times 
Russia made its most significant advance this week since shifting strategies to focus on eastern Ukraine. It edged closer to capturing the entirety of the Luhansk region. 
The advances have focused on surrounding and capturing Sievierodonetsk, one of the most important cities still held by Ukraine in the east. Both sides have been locked in increasingly heavy street fighting in recent days, and Ukraine’s hold on the city appears fragile. 
Russia’s renewed momentum in the area shows dividends from focusing on a narrower area within eastern Ukraine instead of spreading its attack across the entire eastern front. 
Finland and Sweden consider joining NATO 
Finland’s leaders announced on May 12 that their country should “apply for NATO membership without delay.” And Swedish leaders suggested on May 13 that Sweden would benefit from joining NATO. It is a remarkable shift by two nations on Russia’s doorstep that had long remained nonaligned militarily — but where public opinion has lurched strongly toward joining the alliance in the 11 weeks since Russia invaded Ukraine. 
The fight for the East 
Russia has amassed troops in an attempt to seize eastern Ukraine, now its main objective in the war. The Russian military seems intent on encircling Ukrainian troops in the Donbas region by advancing from several directions, including south from Izium and north from Donetsk. 
Sources: Verified imagery; witness accounts; Ukrainian and Russian officials; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project; Rochan Consulting The New York Times 
While fighting has continued across the east in recent days, Russia’s military has not yet started a large-scale ground offensive in Donbas, according to military analysts, and its gains have been limited so far. Russia has taken initial steps — missile attacks, long-range artillery barrages and small detachments probing Ukrainian defenses — that may be laying the groundwork for a wider push. 
So far, neither side has a clear upper hand. 
Russian forces amassed near Izium have probed south, in the direction of the critical city of Kramatorsk. But they have been met by significant Ukrainian defenses to the south of Izium and have made little progress. In an apparent attempt to divert Russian forces from Izium, according to military analysts, the Ukrainian military conducted counterattacks east of Kharkiv, recapturing some small towns this week. 
At a second front in the northeast, near Sievierodonetsk, Russian forces appeared to make limited progress after bypassing the city. Russia captured the town of Kreminna, according to Ukrainian officials, and have carried out attacks nearby in Rubizhne, which remains in Ukrainian hands. 
Russian troops may try to head toward Kramatorsk from the southeast as well, from near Donetsk city, in an effort to cut off Ukrainian troops from two directions. Areas around Donetsk have seen near-constant fighting for the last month, with residents reporting frequent shelling. 
In the south, Russian troops have been massing across a fourth front between Zaporizhzhia and Donetsk. That front has been relatively quiet for weeks. However, Russian units in the city of Mariupol are expected to head there if they can capture the city. Although fighting has continued there for two months, Russian forces now control almost the entire city, with a sizable number of holdouts positioned in a major steel plant. 
Russia tightens its grip on Mariupol 
The Russian military moved into the center of the southern city of Mariupol this week, a significant advance in a crucial, bloody battle that has continued for almost seven weeks. The advance split Ukrainian forces in two, with one group near the port and another in the eastern industrial district. 
March 15 Russia had the city surrounded, cutting off supply lines for Ukrainian troops. 
April 12 Russian troops had divided the city, splitting Ukrainian forces. 
Tuesday 
Sources: Verified footage; satellite imagery; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian troop movements) Note: Russian-controlled areas represent territory that Russian forces are able to operate freely in, without immediate risk of Ukrainian counterattacks, as assessed by the Institute for the Study of War. Areas of Russian advances indicate where Russian troops were seen. The New York Times 
Seizing Mariupol is crucial for Russia. The city occupies a strategic location between Crimea, which Russia annexed in 2014, and areas of the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine that are controlled by Russia-backed separatists. If Russia takes control of the city, troops fighting there could be redeployed to Donbas, which is now Russia’s central focus in the war. 
Despite being outnumbered, Ukrainian troops continue to hold some key areas of Mariupol. Valeriy Zaluzhnyi, the commander in chief of Ukraine’s armed forces, said on Facebook on Monday that Ukrainian forces were continuing to “hold the city, durably and sustainably.” 
But given recent Russian gains, analysts at the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington research group, believe that Russian forces are likely to capture Mariupol in the coming week. 
Mariupol has been under siege by Russian forces for more than 40 days. Civilians who remain in the city lack access to water, food or electricity, and they face almost constant aerial bombardment. Almost no area of the city has been left unscathed, according to an analysis of satellite imagery by Masae Analytics, a company that assesses damage to buildings. 
Source: Data from the European satellite Sentinel-1A (ESA), processed by Masae Analytics. Note: Highlighted areas show estimates of large changes in the shapes of buildings using radar data and satellite imagery taken on Feb. 20 and April 5. The New York Times 
How Russia is refocusing for a pivotal struggle in eastern Ukraine 
After withdrawing from much of northern Ukraine, Russia is shifting troops to the country’s east to bolster a crucial conflict that may define the next phase of the war. 
Some key locations of this fight are already clear. The Russian military, which is trying to encircle the Ukrainian army, recently seized the eastern city of Izium and will try to push southeast to Sloviansk, experts expect. 
Source: Verified imagery; witness accounts; Ukrainian and Russian officials; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project Note: Russian-controlled areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on April 5 and represent territory that Russian forces are able to operate freely in, without immediate risk of Ukrainian counterattacks, as assessed by the Institute for the Study of War. Approximate areas of fighting are drawn from reports from March 31 to April 6, as of 5 a.m. Eastern on April 6. The New York Times 
Russia’s ability to seize Sloviansk is seen as a key test of whether it can succeed at capturing the entirety of the Donbas, which Russian-backed separatists have been fighting for eight years. It took weeks of fighting and shelling for Russia to bring Izium under its control, and Sloviansk is a larger target, with about twice as many residents. Russian troops are reportedly already facing Ukrainian counteroffensives along the way. 
If Russian forces take Sloviansk, their next targets are likely to be Rubizhne, about 40 miles east near Sievierodonetsk, where fighting is ongoing, or Horlivka, about 50 miles south near Donetsk. Advancing to Horlivka would leave more Ukrainian troops isolated on one of the most active frontlines. 
If successful, an advance to Horlivka would achieve two of Russia’s main aims. It would link up Russian troops from the north with separatist forces in the Donbas. And it would push the frontline of the war west, giving them control of the Luhansk region and more of the Donetsk region. 
Advancing in the east is a critical goal for President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia. Gaining control of the Donbas would effectively partition off a piece of Eastern Ukraine, and the Russian leader could sell it to his country as a victory. But it remains unclear if Russia has enough forces to encircle Ukrainian troops. 
Russia’s renewed attack on the east comes as it completes its withdrawal of troops from the suburbs of Kyiv and other northern Ukrainian cities, leaving behind gruesome scenes of dead civilians. 
Ukraine reclaims control of dozens of towns after Russian troops withdraw from around Kyiv 
Russian forces have retreated from around the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and the northern city of Chernihiv, a major defeat for the Russian military and a turning point in the war. Ukraine’s army said it was back in control of dozens of towns to the west and east of Kyiv, including some of the conflict’s most intense battlefields. 
Source: Ukrainian and Russian officials; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project The New York Times 
The withdrawal — substantiated by witnesses, Ukrainian officials, satellite images and military analysts — marks the collapse, at least for now, of Russia’s haphazard campaign to seize the capital and replace Ukraine’s government. The fight is expected to continue to shift to the the Donbas region of eastern Ukraine. 
In the suburban towns north of the Kyiv, the Ukrainian army was advancing through a tableau of destruction, with dozens of wrecked tanks on streets, extensive damage to buildings and the bodies of civilians still lying uncollected. Kyiv and its surroundings, which had echoed with artillery booms and gunfire for weeks, had gone quiet. 
Ukraine’s military on Saturday moved into Bucha, a key town on the west bank of the Dnipro River — which divides Kyiv — days after Russian forces had sacked it on their way out. Satellite imagery of a key airport in Hostomel by Maxar Technologies, a U.S.-based imaging company, appeared to show that Russian equipment had been removed sometime in the last 10 days. 
Russian attacks continued elsewhere in the country, and military analysts said that Russia’s withdrawal from areas near Kyiv did not mean it was de-escalating its war effort. 
Russian troops have seized Izium, a key city southeast of Kharkiv that has been under Russian attack for several weeks, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington research group. The city could serve as a launching pad for Russian troops from north of Kharkiv to try to link up with forces in the Donbas region in eastern Ukraine and isolate Ukrainian forces fighting in the northeast. 
Where Ukrainian forces have mounted counterattacks in the northeast 
In the war’s fifth week, Ukraine reported making some gains in the northeast, waging counterattacks that pushed back Russian forces and enabled the Ukrainians to recapture several towns near the front lines. 
Ukraine’s counterattacks have come as major Russian offensives have mostly stalled, with Russian troops largely regrouping and trying to consolidate territory taken in the opening weeks of the invasion. 
Source: Verified imagery; witness accounts; Ukrainian and Russian officials; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 28. Approximate areas of fighting are drawn from reports from March 22 to 28, as of 4 p.m. Eastern on March 28. The New York Times 
The mayor of Irpin, a fiercely contested suburb northwest of Kyiv, said Monday that the Ukrainian army had liberated the town from Russian forces, but that the area remains too unsafe for residents to return home. Maintaining control of Irpin is strategically important for Ukraine’s army to keep its hold on Kyiv. 
Reports from the ground suggested Ukraine’s hold on Irpin was tenuous. Ukrainian soldiers who had been in the town on Monday said pockets of Russian troops were still hiding there, and officials said that Russian artillery continued to target the town. 
Officials also said the towns of Lukianivka and Rudnytske, both east of Kyiv, had been recaptured after several days of counterattacks. 
In a statement posted on Sunday on Telegram, Dmytro Zhyvytsky, the head of the Sumy regional military administration, announced the recapture of Trostianets and Boromlia. The two towns are just south of Sumy, a city currently surrounded by Russian forces. 
South of Kharkiv, Ukrainian forces reported having recaptured Husarivka. That town is 10 miles northwest of Izium, where intense fighting has been going on for several weeks. 
NATO sharply increases its forces in Eastern Europe 
NATO announced it was doubling, to eight, the number of countries in Eastern Europe where it has battlegroups. The decision to bolster its presence in the region signals growing concerns for how Russia may respond to the increasing diplomatic and economic penalties it is facing over its monthlong invasion of Ukraine. 
The new NATO battlegroups in Bulgaria, Hungary, Romania and Slovakia join similar forces in Baltic countries and Poland — which are also growing in size. 
“We have a responsibility to ensure that the war does not escalate beyond Ukraine, and become a conflict between NATO and Russia,” said Jens Stoltenberg, NATO’s secretary general. 
A little more than a quarter of all troops under direct NATO command are now in Poland, which shares a large border with the western part of Ukraine. An additional 120,000 troops from Poland’s military are at the ready — the most of any host country in the alliance. 
Mr. Stoltenberg, speaking to reporters a day before a major summit of European allies in Brussels, said: “We face a new reality for our security. So we must reset our deterrence and defense for the longer-term.” 
Where Russian forces have made advances in eastern Ukraine 
Russian advances have stalled on multiple fronts, including areas north of Kyiv and in the south around Mykolaiv, but Russian forces have continued to make slow but consistent territorial gains in eastern Ukraine, where they aim to isolate large parts of the Ukrainian army. 
Over the past week, fighting has been fierce in many towns and villages along the front lines, and Russian forces have made advances from territory in the Donbas region, where Russian-backed separatists took over in 2014. Russia has advanced west in Donetsk toward the region’s border and northwest toward Izium. 
Source: Verified imagery; witness accounts; Ukrainian and Russian officials; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 23. Russian forces in eastern Ukraine include Russian-backed separatists. Approximate areas of fighting are drawn from reports from March 11 to 22, as of 4 a.m. Eastern on March 23. The New York Times 
Russian forces are likely to have two strategic targets in the Donbas. The Russian military aims to advance the front line toward the administrative border of the Donetsk and Luhansk regions, and to also link up forces in the Donbas with troops from Crimea and south of Kharkiv, according to military analysts. Connecting these forces could isolate Ukrainian troops fighting on the front line near Donbas or force them to retreat, which would be a major strategic victory for the Russians. 
Mariupol, an important port city that has been holding out against a Russian siege for more than three weeks now, remains in Ukrainian control, frustrating Russian forces in their goal to control a corridor from Donetsk to Crimea. Russian troops have advanced on Mariupol from both the east and west in recent days, while continuing to shell residential buildings in the city and reinforce artillery positions north of the city. 
Some of the most intense fighting has been for the city of Severodonetsk in Luhansk. The Ukrainian armed forces report nearly daily attacks on the city, but it currently remains in Ukrainian hands. The city is on a crucial advance northwest toward Izium, which Russian troops have also repeatedly attacked from the north. 
Russia, stalled elsewhere, advances in the east 
Ukrainian forces continue to hold off Russian advances near Kyiv, Kharkiv and in large parts of the South. But in the east, Russian forces have made steady progress in recent days, moving west from the separatist-held territory of Donbas. 
Source: Verified imagery, witness accounts, Ukrainian and Russian officials, Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project Note: Russian forces in eastern Ukraine include Russian-backed separatists. Approximate areas of fighting are drawn from reports from March 13 to 21. The New York Times 
Russian forces in many parts of the country have been hindered by supply issues, with units pausing operations while they regroup. 
An assessment published on Sunday by the Institute for the Study of War said that Russian forces will likely expand their bombing campaign on Kyiv instead of trying to encircle the city in the coming weeks. 
The group also reported that Russian forces are strengthening their defensive positions in captured areas and moving artillery into positions that can strike central Kyiv. 
Even as Ukrainians hold the line outside major cities, the position of the Ukrainian army in the east looks increasingly precarious, according to an analysis this week by researchers at RUSI, a military analysis group. Those forces could risk becoming encircled by Russian troops advancing along several paths east of the Dnieper River. 
Those advances have left a vast trail of destruction, according to witnesses, imagery and statements from local officials. 
Russian forces have moved into several villages west of the city of Donetsk in the last couple of days. Farther north, they have pummeled the city of Izium, which has no heat, food, water or other basic services, although the Russian and Ukrainian sides dispute who controls the city. 
An initial analysis of damage in Mariupol shows widespread attacks across residential areas 
Analysis of satellite images for a section of Mariupol found evidence of widespread damage across residential neighborhoods. At least 391 buildings in the study area were observed to have been damaged or destroyed in a part of the city that is dotted with schools and health facilities. 
Source: Damage analysis by Unitar/Unosat Note: The analysis excluded a military area near the center of the map. The analysis accounts only for damage apparent in satellite imagery and thus is most likely an undercount of the actual damage sustained so far. The New York Times 
The analysis, by Unitar-Unosat, a United Nations research group, examined structures within a section of the eastern district of Livoberezhnyi. The group compared a satellite image captured on March 14 this year with imagery from June 2021. 
Damaged structures included seven schools and four health facilities, according to the report. Livoberezhnyi, meaning “Left Bank,” is one of the city’s four administrative districts and is home to about 120,000 residents. 
Russian forces have laid siege to Mariupol for nearly three weeks. Incessant shelling has blocked efforts to evacuate people and send aid, leaving the nearly half a million residents trapped with dwindling supplies of food, water and medicine. 
A maternity ward bombed last week and a theater bombed on Wednesday are near the city center. Mariupol’s city council said on Sunday that Russia had bombed a drama school where about 400 people had been hiding. 
Most communication has been cut off from the city, making it difficult to assess the full extent of the damage and the status of residents still there. 
Where Ukrainians are fighting Russian forces 
While their advances have slowed in recent days, Russian forces continue to clash with Ukrainian defenses on multiple fronts. This map shows the active areas of fighting, according to a statement posted on Tuesday by Ukrainian military officials. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 15. Russian forces in eastern Ukraine include Russian-backed separatists. The New York Times 
In recent days, fighting near Kyiv has been mostly restricted to suburbs, just northwest and west of the city, including Bucha and Irpin, about 10 miles from the city center. 
In the south, Russian forces resumed attacks in their advances toward Mykolaiv and Kryvyi Rih. Recent Russian pushes have been toward Zaporizhzhia, with forces most likely aiming to block the city on both banks of the Dnieper River. 
In the east, Russian forces and Russian-backed separatists have pushed the frontline forward, claiming more areas of Ukraine. Intense fighting has continued for days for Izium, a small city southeast of Kharkiv. Ukrainians still hold Izium, and recent Russian advances have moved around it, heading west toward the city of Dnipro, a key Russian target. 
A night of violent bombardment in Kyiv 
Russian missile strikes hammered multiple neighborhoods in Ukraine’s capital on Tuesday, hitting at least three residential buildings, the entrance of a subway station and a surrounding market. 
It was the most significant attack on Kyiv in recent days. As Russia has failed to capture major cities, it has intensified its targeting of civilian areas from the air, striking residential buildings, schools and hospitals across the country. 
At least four people were killed in the Kyiv attacks on Tuesday, and dozens more had to be rescued, according to the State Emergency Service of Ukraine. Vitali Klitschko, the mayor, announced a 35-hour curfew starting at 8 p.m. on Tuesday, warning that the city was enduring “a difficult and dangerous moment.” 
Firefighters work to extinguish a fire in a 16-story residential building in Kyiv. Sergei Supinsky/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images 
Despite multiple attacks, the prime ministers of Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovenia traveled to Kyiv on Tuesday to express the European Union’s “unequivocal support” for Ukraine and offer financial support. 
Russian strikes kill dozens in western Ukraine 
Russian warplanes struck a Ukrainian military base near the Polish border on Sunday, killing at least 35 people and bringing the war dangerously close to NATO’s doorstep. Western Ukraine had been largely spared from the early fighting, but Russian airstrikes on military targets in the region have ramped up in the last few days. 
The maps below show how Russian aerial attacks have shifted since the widespread airstrikes on the first day of the invasion. Each three-day map shows locations of shelling, airstrikes and other projectiles, according to a New York Times tally of air-related attacks. 
Source: Compiled from photos and videos showing evidence of attacks, government reports and first-person accounts. Data indicates the overall pattern of attacks and should not be considered to be comprehensive. The New York Times 
The attack on the base in Yavoriv, just 12 miles from the Polish border, also injured more than 100 people. Around 1,000 foreign fighters were believed to be training at the base, known as the International Peacekeeping and Security Center. 
Sunday’s attack was the closest Russian offensive yet to the border with Poland, a NATO and European Union member where U.S. troops were deployed to bolster NATO’s defense. Russia carried out the attack a day after warning that weapons flowing into Ukraine from Western allies were “legitimate targets.” 
Video shows the moment of the attack and its aftermath on the military base in Yavoriv, Ukraine. By Haley Willis, Ainara Tiefenthäler and Yousur Al-Hlou 
From small towns to large cities, the extent of Russia’s aerial bombardment of Ukraine 
Facing significant Ukrainian resistance on the ground, Russia is increasingly relying on aerial bombardment. Since the invasion started, at least 67 Ukrainian towns and cities have been hit — some attacked on multiple days — with shelling, airstrikes and other projectiles, according to a New York Times tally of air-related attacks. 
Number of days each city was hit with air-related attacks 
Symbols are sized by the minimum number of days with reports of such attacks. 
Source: Compiled from photos and videos showing evidence of attacks, government reports and first-person accounts. Note: Data is as of 5:30 p.m. Eastern on March 11. Attacks may not have occurred over consecutive days. The New York Times 
Because of the difficulties in getting comprehensive reporting of events in wartime, the tallies shown here are likely an undercount of the full scale of Russia’s aerial attacks. 
Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second-largest city, has been under bombardment for at least nine days. Kyiv, the capital, as well as Irpin, a nearby city, and Mariupol, the besieged southern port city, have also been subjected to multiple days of relentless shelling. At least eight cities have had more than four days of shelling. 
Russian forces recently stepped up aerial attacks in locations far from the frontlines. Many small towns and villages between the eastern Donbas region and Kharkiv have had at least one day of aerial attacks, as Russian forces move toward each other in an effort to close off northeastern Ukraine. 
Where Russians have continued their advances 
Although Russia has not captured major cities in recent days, its invasion is far from stalled. Russian forces continue to make gains, pushing into smaller cities and encircling larger ones. Troops have been nearing Kyiv, the capital, and also closing in on key cities in the South and the Northeast. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) Note: Occupied areas are as of 4 p.m. Eastern on March 10. Russian forces in eastern Ukraine include Russian-backed separatists. The New York Times 
The advances have often been arduous, halting and costly. In some areas, Ukrainian forces have repeatedly pushed the Russians back and have regularly disrupted supply lines. The Ukrainians have managed to hold frontlines outside major cities, even as the much larger Russian force has bombarded civilian areas with devastating airstrikes. 
But even Russia’s slow advances encircling major cities has put enormous pressure on Ukrainian civilians, some of whom lack electricity and running water. And Ukraine’s military remains on the defensive as Russia consolidates its positions outside major cities and threatens to isolate large numbers of Ukrainian troops or force them to retreat. 
“We are surrounded,” said Vladyslav Atroshenko, the mayor of Chernihiv, in a message posted online Wednesday. Russians had bypassed Chernihiv in the early days of the invasion. 
Outside Kyiv, Russian forces gained control of the town of Bucha several days ago and moved southwest in an attempt to encircle the capital. They were also approaching Kyiv from the east, with heavy fighting involving a line of Russian tanks reported in the suburb of Brovary, according to videos posted online on Thursday. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) Note: Occupied areas are as of 4 p.m. Eastern on March 10. The New York Times 
Russian forces continue to have the upper hand in the south. Their offensive on Mykolaiv continued as they worked to encircle the city from the east, with troops conducting offensives radiating out. 
Some troops have pushed up as far as Oleksandrivka, not far from the South Ukraine Nuclear Power Plant, the country’s second largest. Others have made their way to the north and northeast of Mykolaiv toward Kryvyi Rih, though no sustained offensive has been reported. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) Note: Occupied areas are as of 4 p.m. Eastern on March 10. The New York Times 
Mariupol, a southern port city, remains besieged and under constant bombardment. Russia-backed separatist forces from the Donbas have also claimed that they control the highway from Volnovakha to Mariupol, closing yet another route out of the city. 
The Russians appear to be amassing forces north of Crimea for an offensive on Zaporizhzhia. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) Note: Occupied areas are as of 4 p.m. Eastern on March 10. The New York Times 
In the east, in addition to trying to encircle the city of Kharkiv, Russian forces are making their way south, most likely in an effort to join forces with Russian-controlled areas in the Donbas who are moving west. Doing so would cut off the northeast region of Ukraine. 
Russian troops have attacked Izium and the surrounding towns. Civilians were evacuated from Izium, which was one of the humanitarian corridors established during the fighting. 
Several other towns between Kharkiv and Izium were also the site of Russian shelling. In Slobozhanske, Ukrainian officials reported that a civilian residence had been hit, killing four people. 
Images show Russian strikes on civilian buildings in Mariupol 
Russian forces struck a number of civilian buildings in the southeastern city of Mariupol. These satellite images show widespread damage on the city’s west side — in residential areas, shopping centers and surrounding agricultural fields. 
Residential areas 
2020 
Google 
Wednesday 
Portcity shopping mall 
2020 
Wednesday 
Epicentr K shopping mall 
2020 
Google 
Wednesday 
Planet Labs 
Shelling marks can be seen in the fields near M14, a major highway connecting Mariupol to Odessa in Ukraine’s southwestern corner, according to Allison Puccioni, a satellite image analyst and chief executive of Armillary Services. 
Russian forces have encircled Mariupol, an important port, for a week now, laying siege to the roughly half a million people living there. Russian shelling has blocked efforts to create safe roadways for civilians, leaving them trapped without water, food, heat or medicine. Hundreds of casualties have been reported, including at least three people killed after a Russian missile struck a maternity ward, according to the local government. Trenches have been dug for mass graves, and local authorities have instructed residents on how to dispose of the bodies of dead family members. 
Satellite data detected several fires in the west of the city since Sunday. Analysis of satellite imagery found that many residences were significantly damaged, along with commercial and other civilian structures. Three instances of residential damage are shown below. 
Six ‘humanitarian corridors’ are established, but evacuations remain difficult 
On Wednesday, a tentative agreement between Russian and Ukrainian forces allowed for civilians to evacuate from Ukrainian cities with heavy fighting. Six “humanitarian corridors” were established, though not all of them were confirmed to be open and working to safely evacuate people. Ukrainian officials said Russia continued to violate the cease-fire for the corridor out of Mariupol. 
Across the corridors, about 40,000 women and children had been evacuated in a day, David Arakhamia, the leader of the governing Servant of the People Party in Ukraine, said on Facebook on Wednesday. 
Seized in 2014 
BLACK SEA 
100 miles 
More than 600 women and children were taken by bus and car from Enerhodar to Zaporizhzhia in the south, according to local officials, and at least 3,000 people were evacuated from the northwest cities of Irpin and Vorzel and taken to Kyiv. 
A Ukrainian deputy prime minister, Iryna Vereshchuk, said on Facebook that they have been unable to establish a safe corridor out of Mariupol, the site of some of the heaviest bombardment. Russian forces have cut all communications there, making it increasingly difficult to get information about the state of the city, where hundreds of thousands of people remain trapped with limited access to food and water. 
On Tuesday, President Volodymyr Zelensky said about 18,000 people had managed to escape from the areas of the heaviest fighting outside of Kyiv. And he said the passage from Sumy to Poltava, in central Ukraine, allowed about 1,600 students and 3,500 residents to be evacuated. 
“Today we will do everything to continue the work of humanitarian corridors,” he said on Wednesday. 
Allison McCann, Marco Hernandez, Marc Santora, Lazaro Gamio and Scott Reinhard 
March 9, 2022 
Where the police have arrested antiwar protesters in Russia 
More than 13,000 people have been arrested in antiwar protests in Russia since its invasion of Ukraine began on Feb. 24. While the majority of arrests have taken place in Moscow and St. Petersburg, Russia’s two largest cities, protesters have been detained in more than 150 cities in a sign of the pent-up anger about the war that is felt across the country. 
Source: OVD-Info. Note: Map shows total arrests since Feb. 24. The New York Times 
Antiwar protests have continued even as President Vladimir V. Putin renewed his clampdown on free speech. On Friday, a new law was enacted that threatened anyone spreading “false information” about Russia’s invasion of Ukraine with up to 15 years in prison. Facebook, Twitter and all major foreign media were also blocked as the Kremlin seeks to control the narrative in Russia, which faces an economic crisis as a result of Western sanctions. 
Despite the risks, Sunday saw the highest single-day tally of protester arrests in recent memory. More than 5,300 protesters were detained across 74 cities, according to OVD-Info, an activist group that tracks protests in Russia. People were seen chanting “No to war!” on St. Petersburg’s central avenue, Nevsky Prospekt, and on Moscow’s Manezhnaya Square, just outside the Kremlin walls. 
The Russian police deployed to quell a protest in Moscow on March 6. Yuri Kochetkov/EPA, via Shutterstock 
Police officers detained a demonstrator in St. Petersburg on Feb. 27. Dmitri Lovetsky/Associated Press 
Photos and videos from the ground, which have become more scarce in the days since the new censorship law, show the sharp police response to the protests. Officers were seen pinning protesters to the ground and beating some with batons. 
How Russia aims to isolate Ukrainian forces in the east 
Ukrainian forces have held off Russian forces from taking control of new cities in recent days. But the Russians continue to make smaller advances on multiple fronts, and they appear to be aiming for a critical target in central Ukraine: the city of Dnipro. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 7. Russian forces in eastern Ukraine include Russian-backed separatists. The New York Times 
Dnipro occupies an important position. If Russian troops can advance on it both from the north, near Kharkiv, and from the south, up from Crimea, they could isolate Ukrainian forces fighting in the Donbas region in the east, or force them to retreat. 
If the Ukrainian forces in the east are not already withdrawing, they could be potentially encircled and destroyed soon, according to an analysis by Konrad Muzyka, a defense analyst for Rochan Consulting. 
Southern Ukraine is where Russian forces have advanced the most since the invasion began 13 days ago, and Russian forces have continued to press north of Melitopol after taking control of the Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant on Friday. 
Russian troops control the small city of Polohy, and the city has been without heat, electricity or running water for six days, according to a statement on Tuesday by Ivan Arefiev, a spokesman for the regional military administration. 
One aim of recent advances appears to be uniting three groups of Russian forces: troops in the south coming from Crimea; troops moving southeast from near Kharkiv; and Russia-backed separatists pushing the front line in the Donbas region. 
Mariupol, a city on Ukraine’s southern coast, is still holding out against a Russian siege that has left residents without electricity or basic services. It is the last city standing between the unification of Russia-backed separatists attacking from the east and Russian troops advancing from Crimea. 
Russia moves toward Kyiv from the east and attacks civilians from the west 
In the first 11 days of the war, Russian forces have pushed into the areas north and northeast of Kyiv, in an effort to encircle and capture the capital city. 
Directions of recent Russian advances toward Kyiv 
Hostomel 
The Ukrainian Air Force attacked Russian forces in Peremoha, according to the Ukrainian military. 
Area of detail 
The Ukrainian Air Force attacked Russian forces in Peremoha, according to the Ukrainian military. 
Markhalivka 
Area of detail 
Kyiv 
Large strike on residential neighborhood in Bila Tserkva. 
Large strike on residential neighborhood in Bila Tserkva. 
Area of detail 
Kyiv 
UKR. 
UKRAINE 
Source: British Ministry of Defense (Russian advances); Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian advances, Russian-occupied areas) Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 6. The New York Times 
Russia has moved to encircle other key cities throughout the north as it advances toward Kyiv, according to intelligence reports from Britain’s Ministry of Defense. Attempts to take Chernihiv have not been successful, while advances from Sumy through the sparsely populated areas to the east of Kyiv have been met with less resistance, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington research group. 
Russia’s ground forces, including armored vehicles and tanks, have not moved as far along in the dense, urban areas around Kyiv. Ukrainian forces have launched ambushes using small, nimble military units to sneak up on Russian forces. These units are armed with anti-tank missiles that are used to counter Russia’s heavy machinery. 
While Russia has not launched major ground operations into the heart of Kyiv over the past two days, intense shelling has continued in several surrounding towns. On Sunday, a Times photographer witnessed four people, including a mother and her two children, killed by a strike as mortar shelling targeted a battered bridge used by evacuees in Irpin who were trying to escape to Kyiv. 
Satellite imagery via Google Earth The New York Times 
Buildings near Irpin burned after shelling on March 6 in the outskirts of Kyiv. Emilio Morenatti/Associated Press 
The Russian offensive in three parts of the south 
Russia continued to make advances on Saturday in southeastern Ukraine, pushing into the areas around Melitopol and continuing to move toward Mykolaiv, another strategic port city on the Black Sea. 
Previous advance 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) | Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 4. The New York Times 
Russian forces still surround Mariupol, where about a half million people have been without heat, electricity or water for several days. A Russian-declared cease-fire was intended to allow civilians to leave Mariupol and Volnovakha on Saturday, but the evacuations were halted amid what Ukrainian officials said was renewed shelling. 
On Friday Russia attacked the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, the largest nuclear plant in Europe, and Ukrainian officials said the plant is now under control of Russian forces. 
Russian attacks on nuclear sites could destabilize Ukraine’s energy supply 
Russian forces attacked the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant on March 3 and are now reportedly pushing toward the South Ukraine nuclear power plant. These are Ukraine’s two largest nuclear power plants, together responsible for one-third of Ukraine’s electricity generation. 
Source: World Nuclear Association; Global Coal Plant Tracker, Global Energy Monitor, February 2022; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) | Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 4. The New York Times 
Ukraine has a total of four nuclear power plants consisting of 15 reactors that generate roughly 50 percent of the country’s electricity. After nuclear power, coal is the largest source of electricity generated in the country. Many of Ukraine’s coal-fired power plants lie in the Donbas region, where Russian-backed separatists have been fighting Ukrainian forces since 2014. 
Electricity generation in Ukraine by source 
Control over Ukraine’s electricity generation would give Russian forces another tool in their effort to gain control of the country. 
In recent years, Ukraine was already taking steps to disconnect itself from the Soviet-era energy grid it shares with Russia and Belarus, instead looking to connect to a grid shared by its western neighbors. It was running tests on its energy system on Feb. 24, the very day the Russians invaded. The connection to the rest of Europe’s grid was originally planned for completion in 2023, but Ukrainian officials are now looking to expedite it. 
As Russian invasion efforts have been frustrated by staunch Ukrainian resistance, Russian forces have moved to using artillery and air strikes to try to achieve their goals. Many of the targets struck have been civilian buildings, among them at least one coal power plant that was leveled in Okhtyrka, near Sumy in the northern part of the country. Prior to the invasion, one coal plant caught fire after being shelled by separatist forces in the Donbas region. 
Russian forces also control at least one hydroelectric dam in the south of the country and are working to capture another north of Kyiv. Russian forces have additionally occupied the Chernobyl nuclear site since early in the conflict, though its four reactors are defunct. 
Civilians try to escape as fight for Kyiv continues 
As Russian forces tried to close in on Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, thousands of people — mostly women and children — rushed to catch trains on Friday as explosions shook the city. Ukraine’s military said in a statement that the Russian army’s primary objective was now to encircle the capital. 
Sources: Verified footage; satellite imagery. The New York Times 
Much of the fighting on Friday took place on the northwestern outskirts of Kyiv, in and around the cities of Hostomel, Bucha and Irpin, as the Russian military tried to push closer to the capital. 
Civilians in Irpin, where troops and a Russian tank were photographed on Friday, raced to catch trains heading southeast into the capital. A small airport in Hostomel was the site of a continuing battle. 
People removed personal belongings from a burning house in Irpin, outside Kyiv, on March 4. Aris Messinis/Agence France-Presse — Getty Images 
In Kozarovychi, a village about 25 miles north of Kyiv, a base of Russian paratroopers was destroyed by Ukrainian artillery, according to local press. In Markhalivka, to the southwest, an airstrike hit a rural residential area, Ukrainian law enforcement officials said, killing at least seven people. 
Several bridges have been destroyed around Kyiv, possibly by Ukrainian forces hoping to slow the advancement of Russian troops. In the capital on Friday, a silvery, metallic tail section of what appeared to be a cruise missile was seen in a parking lot. 
Source: Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant, imagery of the fire. Satellite image by Maxar via Google Earth The New York Times 
A fire set off by fighting at Europe’s largest nuclear plant on Friday caused damage to a training facility about 1,500 feet from the nearest of the plant’s six nuclear reactors, according to an analysis of imagery of the fire. 
The damage set off widespread fears of a radiological disaster, but international monitors said early Friday that there was no immediate sign that radiation had leaked from the Zaporizhzhia plant. 
Credit: NewsEnergodar via Telegram 
There was also damage to “the structure of the reactor compartment” at one of the six reactors, which did not affect the safety of the unit, according to a statement by Ukrainian nuclear officials. It was unclear which reactor structure was damaged. 
Russian troops took control of the facility after an intense gun battle on Friday. Although radiation levels did not appear to spike, there were many remaining dangers — from workers being able to do their critical jobs while the plant is occupied to the possibility of unreported damage at one of the reactors. 
Besides the threat of fighting to Zaporizhzhia’s reactors and their cores full of highly radioactive fuel, the site has many acres of open pools of water where spent fuel rods have been cooled for years. Experts fear that errant shells or missiles that hit such sites could set off radiological disasters. 
Russian forces are expected to continue to push north of the nuclear plant, toward the city of Zaporizhzhia. To the east, Russian troops have for days encircled the port city of Mariupol, a key point between the Donbas region, controlled by Russian-backed separatists, and the Russia-controlled Crimean Peninsula. 
Mykolaiv is preparing for an imminent Russian attack. 
Melitopol 
Electricity, water and power are disrupted in Mariupol, which is under frequent shelling. 
Kryvyi Rih 
Zaporizhzhia 
Melitopol 
Electricity, water and power are disrupted in Mariupol, which is under frequent shelling. 
Electricity, water and power are disrupted in Mariupol, which is under frequent shelling. 
Mykolaiv is preparing for an imminent Russian attack. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) | Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 3. The New York Times 
If Russian forces take over the entire coast to the east of Crimea, Ukraine’s army east of the Dnieper River could be isolated, and Russia could control the Sea of Azov and its industrial infrastructure. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian-occupied areas) | Note: Occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 3. The New York Times 
After nine days of fighting, Russia’s primary effort remains capturing Kyiv, the capital. But Russian forces continued to attack Ukraine on several other fronts, laying siege to cities and trying to control vital ports. 
In the south, Russia appears to be intent on capturing Ukraine’s entire Black Sea coast, in an apparent attempt to cut it off from shipping. Russian troops pushing north from Crimea on Wednesday seized the strategically important southern port city of Kherson, the first major city to fall to the Russian military. Those troops are continuing to push west to another port city, Mykolaiv, and then are expected to target Odessa, according to an analysis from the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington research group. 
Russia seized the largest nuclear power plant in Europe, near Zaporizhzhia, after intense fighting between Russian and Ukrainian forces. A fire that had broken out there was extinguished, and radiation does not appear to have leaked, international monitors said. 
Russian troops have also encircled the Ukrainian port city of Mariupol, a key point between the Donbas region, controlled by Russian-backed separatists, and the Russia-controlled Crimean Peninsula. If Russian forces take over the area, Ukraine’s army east of the Dnieper River could face encirclement, and Russia would be able to take control of the Sea of Azov and its industrial infrastructure. The bombardment in Mariupol has cut power, water and heat to the people, the local mayor, Vadym Boichenko, said in a statement on Facebook. 
In Kyiv, Russian forces pushing in from the western outskirts of the city have been met with strong Ukrainian resistance. Additional forces east of Kyiv are advancing toward the capital, according to the institute. 
The second-largest city, Kharkiv, has been the site of heavy bombardment, with several civilian structures hit as Russians attempt to encircle the city. Videos of the city center verified by The New York Times show large buildings and storefronts with severe structural damage, as well as damage to residential buildings and schools on the outskirts of the city. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian troop movements) | Note: Russian-occupied areas are as of 3 p.m. Eastern on March 2. The New York Times 
The Black Sea port of Kherson, in the southern region of Ukraine, became the first major city to come under full control of Russian forces on Wednesday. 
“There is no Ukrainian army here,” said Igor Kolykhaev, the city’s mayor. “The city is surrounded.” 
Russian troops first approached the city on Friday and met heavy resistance. On Saturday, they destroyed a dam in the region that Ukraine had built in 2014 in order to cut off an important water source to Crimea. 
Ukrainian forces retreated west toward Mykolaiv, Mr. Kolykhaev said. Russian forces are likely to head there in their drive to Odessa. 
Gennady Trukhanov, the mayor of Odessa, backed by assessments from Ukraine’s military, said on Wednesday that Russia’s goal was likely to surround Odessa with land and naval forces, cutting off Ukraine’s access to the Black Sea and the country’s primary link to the global economy. 
“My sense is that they will encircle Odessa and hold that position while they continue their assault on Kyiv,” Mr. Trukhanov said. 
About 260 miles to the east of Kherson, Russian forces also have surrounded the port city of Mariupol by land and sea, and have been bombarding critical infrastructure and civilian targets, according to the Institute for the Study of War. Capturing Mariupol would allow Russian forces in the south to join with Russian-backed separatists in the east, isolating Ukrainian troops in the region. 
Source: Ukrainian officials | Note: Airstrikes and shelling data are from Feb. 28 to March 2. The New York Times 
The city of Kharkiv in northeastern Ukraine continued to be pummeled with airstrikes and shelling on Wednesday. Blasts or explosions have been reported in at least seven locations around the city since Monday. The head of the Kharkiv region said on Facebook that at least 20 people had been killed and 125 had been injured since Saturday. 
The strikes and ensuing explosions over the last two days have damaged office buildings, a university building and residential districts in the city. On Tuesday, a large explosion struck directly in front of the Kharkiv’s administrative building, shown below. At least seven people were killed and another 24 were injured. 
Kharkiv Regional State Administration 
June 2015 
March 1, 2022 
Pavel Dorogoy / Associated Press 
After Russian ground forces failed to take control of Kharkiv on Friday, analysts say that Moscow is now focused on air, missile and artillery strikes before likely launching a renewed ground offensive. 
On Wednesday, just after 8 a.m. local time, a missile strike damaged three buildings at one intersection: a building of Kharkiv National University, shown below; the police headquarters; and an office of the National Security Service. The State Emergency Service of Ukraine reported three people injured so far on Wednesday, with rescue work ongoing. 
National Police Headquarters 
December 2021 
March 2, 2022 
Oleksandr Lapshyn / Reuters 
About 1.5 million people live in the city of Kharkiv, according to the latest estimates, making it Ukraine’s second-largest city. Residents have sheltered in subway stations, basements and bunkers since the assault on the city began last week. 
Sources: Verified footage; satellite imagery; Institute for the Study of War with American Enterprise Institute’s Critical Threats Project (Russian troop movements) | Note: Russian-occupied areas for March 1 are as of 3 p.m. Eastern, and ground fighting and airstrikes data is as of 6:30 p.m. Russian-occupied areas are those assessed for each date and may change in subsequent assessments. The New York Times 
In six days of fighting in Ukraine, Russian forces have seized territory in the county’s south and east but remain shut out of some major cities and the capital, Kyiv, prompting a ramped up effort to surround the city and an escalation of attacks on civilian infrastructure around the country. 
The invasion, and the push into Kyiv, began on Feb. 24 local time with an early-morning campaign of airstrikes that aimed to take out Ukraine’s air power. Once military bases and airports across the country were struck, Russian forces began their assault from the border with Belarus, to the north of the capital. 
On that first day of fighting, troops that entered from the northwest captured the former Chernobyl nuclear power plant, and Russian forces began moving toward Kyiv. Special forces and airborne troops were closing in on the capital by the end of the day but were met with a fierce defense mounted by Ukrainian forces. 
Forces that entered Ukraine from the northeast also encountered heavy resistance in the city of Chernihiv, which lies on the road to Kyiv. By the second day, troops bypassed the city and headed south along the Dnieper River. 
West of the river, Ukrainian troops withdrew from the Hostomel airport on Friday, and it was captured by Russian troops, according to the Institute for the Study of War, a Washington research group. Ukrainian forces, however, appeared to have destroyed the airport’s runway, rendering it unusable. 
Over the next several days, Russia bombarded Kyiv with missile strikes, and troops began pushing into the city from the northwest. The forces that had come from the northeast also advanced along the east bank of the Dnieper River, drawing closer to the capital. 
Satellite images taken from Feb. 26 to Feb. 28 show bridges that were destroyed in and around Kyiv, some possibly by Ukrainian forces to slow the advancement of Russian troops. 
Bridges destroyed in Ukraine 
Russian troops have now consolidated on two fronts, in the northwest and the northeast areas of Kyiv, and may attempt to cut off supply lines of arms and other military equipment arriving from European Union countries. ​​Ukrainian forces have so far defended against incursions from Kyiv’s west, including an attack on the nearby city of Irpin on Monday. 
As of Tuesday, the Russians had deployed heavy artillery and more forces to the area northwest of Kyiv, a likely prelude to the intense shelling that could soon befall the capital. A long convoy of Russian forces was also seen approaching the city. The convoy may aid in direct assaults on the city from the northwest, but it is more likely to bolster the effort to surround the city, particularly from the west, according to the Institute for the Study of War. 
On the east side of the river on Tuesday, Russian vehicles reportedly moved east toward Bobrovytsia, the institute said, possibly to join the forces near Nizhyn, about 70 miles east of Kyiv. 
Russia takes aim at civilian targets 
Russia appeared to target civilian areas with increasingly powerful weapons on Tuesday, damaging major cities and dramatically raising the risk of civilian deaths. 
A large explosion hit central Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second largest city, destroying a large administration building and killing at least seven people. A second attack in a residential neighborhood in Kharkiv destroyed a hospital and resulted in several deaths and injuries, the city’s mayor told a local television station. And video showed a projectile hitting the main radio and television tower in Kyiv, the capital, forcing television stations off the air, according to Ukrainian officials. 
Source: New York Times reporting; Institute for the Study of War. Russian-occupied areas as of 3:30 p.m. Eastern on Feb. 28. Ground fighting and airstrikes data as of 8:15 a.m. Eastern on March 1. Note: Russian forces in eastern Ukraine include Russian-backed separatists. The New York Times 
Russian forces battled for control of two major cities in the south. Videos showed Russian troops patrolling Kherson and an explosion at an apartment building, although Ukrainians kept control, according to Janes, a company that analyzes intelligence. The mayor of Mariupol, a key port city, said residents lacked electricity and heat after days of intense fighting. Capturing Mariupol would allow Russian forces in the south to join with Russian-backed separatists in the east, isolating Ukrainian troops in the region. 
Security footage of the apparent airstrike in Kharkiv showed what appeared to be a rocket hitting directly in front of the city’s administration building, creating a large fireball that engulfed several cars. The blast left behind a large crater near the city’s central square. 
The New York Times 
Outside of the capital, a convoy of Russian tanks and vehicles, now about 40 miles long, could still be seen in satellite images. A renewed assault on western Kyiv was likely to start again on Tuesday, according to an analysis by the Institute for the Study of War. 
Source: United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Data as of March 1. The New York Times 
More than half a million refugees have fled Ukraine since Russia’s invasion began last week, according to the United Nations refugee agency. About half of them crossed Ukraine’s western border to Poland. Others have gone to Hungary, Moldova, Romania and Slovakia. Ukraine enacted martial law at the beginning of the conflict that requires men ages 18 to 60 to remain in the country. 
For many refugees, these bordering countries could be a first stop of their journey. Romanian authorities said about half of those who had entered the country so far had already left for other European countries. 
Evacuees from Ukraine at the train station in Zahony, Hungary, on Sunday. Laetitia Vancon for The New York Times 
According to the refugee agency, an additional 129,000 people have reportedly been displaced to Russia from Ukraine’s eastern Donbas region since Feb. 18, when Russian-backed separatists there called for residents to evacuate to Russia as tensions escalated. 
There are also reports of people who are unable to leave Ukraine. About 15,000 Indian citizens remained stranded at the start of the conflict, India’s foreign secretary told reporters late Sunday. The Indian government has managed to evacuate about 2,000 of them through border crossings with Ukraine’s neighboring countries. 
Thousands of citizens of African countries, many of them medical and science students at Ukrainian universities, are also trapped in several Ukrainian cities. Somalia’s foreign minister said that his office had contacted countries such as Poland in an effort to provide legal entry to about 300 Somalis. 
The United Nations says it is preparing for up to four million refugees from Ukraine in the coming days and weeks. 
Russian rockets hit Kharkiv, and troops move to encircle Kyiv 
Russian rockets on Monday hit a residential neighborhood in Kharkiv, Ukraine’s second largest city, killing dozens of people, according to Ukrainian officials. Videos of the attacks appear to show the most aggressive targeting of a civilian area by Russian airstrikes since the invasion began five days ago. 
Ukrainian forces retained control of major cities. But Russian troops have moved to towns west of Kyiv, the capital, including Borodianka, according to Ukrainian officials and videos of the fighting. The movement may be an attempt to encircle Kyiv and cut off supply lines of arms and other military equipment arriving from E.U. countries. 
BELARUS 
Klintsy 
Source: New York Times reporting; Institute for the Study of War. Russian-occupied areas as of 4 p.m. Eastern on Feb. 27. Ground fighting and airstrikes data as of 11:45 a.m. Eastern on Feb. 28. The New York Times 
Russian troops in southern Ukraine continued to advance, capturing the coastal city of Berdiansk. Russian airstrikes hit Zaporizhzhia, up the Dnieper River, according to Ukrainian officials. And Russian officials claimed to take control of a nearby town, Enerhodar, although Ukrainian officials disputed this. 
The rocket attacks in Kharkiv could be seen in videos posted to Telegram on Monday and verified by The New York Times. The number of casualties could not immediately be confirmed. 
The New York Times 
Talks between Russian and Ukrainian officials began in Belarus even as the fighting continued. President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine said before the meeting that he was not hopeful that the talks would end the hostilities. 
Russia’s advance on Ukrainian cities is slowed by resistance 
The Russian military’s push toward Kyiv, Ukraine’s capital, slowed over the weekend. After rapid incursions toward Kyiv during the first two days of the invasion, Russian forces made limited new territorial gains. Instead, experts say Russia may have focused on moving additional combat supplies to the front lines. 
Source: New York Times reporting; Institute for the Study of War (Russian-occupied areas). Data as of 4 p.m. Eastern on Feb. 27. The New York Times 
The relative pause may stem from Russia previously underestimating Ukrainian forces, according to an analysis by the Institute for the Study of War. So far, Ukraine has held Russia out of several cities including Kyiv and Kharkiv. Footage analyzed by The New York Times showed Russian forces advancing closer than previously seen to the center of Kharkiv, the country’s second-largest city, but they were mostly pushed back. 
In the country’s south, forces have continued to advance north toward Zaporizhzhia and have encircled Mariupol, beginning initial assaults on the port city. Despite Russian-backed separatist control of the Donbas region in the country’s east, Russian and separatist troops have not made major advances against Ukrainian forces there. 
High civilian casualties may also be likely in the coming days if the Russian military continues its push into densely populated urban areas. The Ukrainian Interior Ministry said on Sunday that 352 civilians have been killed, including 14 children. 
Three regions where Russian forces are pushing into Ukraine 
Russia has established attack lines into three regions of Ukraine: toward Kyiv, the capital, from the north; toward Kharkiv, from the northeast; and fanning out from Crimea in the south. Ukraine has also fought Russian-backed separatists in the Donbas region to the east. 
Source: New York Times reporting; Institute for the Study of War (Russian-occupied areas). Data as of 1 p.m. Eastern on Feb. 26. The New York Times 
Russian forces pushed toward Kyiv from the north and east, but had yet to take the capital on Saturday after heavy shelling and intense fighting. After failing to capture Chernihiv, Russian troops moved around the city toward Kyiv, according to an analysis by the Institute for the Study of War, a research group in Washington. 
Russian forces were stopped short of Kyiv’s eastern outskirts. 
Nizhyn 
Korosten 
Nosivka 
Ground troops entered the outskirts of Kyiv on the west bank of the Dnieper River. 
Ground troops entered the outskirts of Kyiv on the west bank of the Dnieper River. 
Russian forces were stopped short of Kyiv’s eastern outskirts. 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials; Institute for the Study of War The New York Times 
Troops crossed the Russian border at several points and advanced toward Kharkiv, the second-largest city in Ukraine. On Friday, the fighting appeared to center a few miles outside the city limits, near the village of Tsyrkuny. A Kharkiv government Telegram account on Saturday said Russian troops were being fought at multiple points to the north and southeast of the city. 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials; Institute for the Study of War 
Russian forces coming from Crimea pushed north toward Zaporizhzhia and east toward Mariupol. There has been heavy fighting on a bridge in the city of Kherson, and Russian troops blew up a dam on the North Crimean Canal, built by Ukraine in 2014 to block Crimean water supply from the Dnieper River. 
Zaporizhzhia 
UKRAINE 
Mariupol 
Odessa 
Russian forces destroyed a dam that was built to stop the flow of water to Crimea. 
Odessa 
Areas occupied by 
Russian forces 
Russian forces destroyed a dam that was built to stop the flow of water to Crimea. 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials; Institute for the Study of War; East View Geospatial (urban area data) 
A majority of the more than 150,000 Russian forces massed against Ukraine are now fighting in the country, a senior Pentagon official said on Saturday, up from about one-third on Friday. 
Fighting intensifies across Kyiv 
Ukrainian forces put up a fierce battle on Saturday to hold Kyiv, the capital, as Russian troops pressed in from all directions. What until three days ago had been a thriving European metropolis has been transformed into a battle zone. 
While Ukrainian forces appeared to keep control, fighting reached the city center before appearing to quiet later on Saturday. Combat was seen 400 yards from Maidan Square, according to ​​Ukrainska Pravda, a Ukrainian news site, citing witnesses. There were reports of clashes near the city’s train station closer to the center, according to the witness accounts. 
Intense fighting could be seen along Peremohy Avenue, a main thoroughfare. Videos verified by The Times showed vehicles on fire on the street in the neighborhood of Shuliavka, near the Kyiv Zoo. 
The New York Times 
A residential building was struck by a missile in southwestern Kyiv on Saturday morning, injuring at least a half dozen people. 
The New York Times 
Russia has established attack lines into three cities — Kyiv in the north, Kharkiv in the northeast and Kherson in the south — and Ukrainian troops are fighting to hold all three. 
Russian forces enter Kyiv, but they are held back on some other fronts 
Russian troops have pushed into Ukraine along the country’s southern, eastern and northern borders, but the operation has encountered more resistance from Ukrainian forces farther north in Kyiv and Kharkiv, the country’s two largest cities. 
Source: Institute for the Study of War. Data as of 1 p.m. Eastern on Feb. 25. The New York Times 
Moscow’s forces entered the western outskirts of Kyiv, the capital, but failed to penetrate the city’s eastern side as of Friday evening local time, according to an independent analysis of the conflict by the Institute for the Study of War, a research group in Washington. Ukrainian forces also prevented Russian troops from taking Chernihiv, a city northeast of Kyiv. 
Ukraine’s military said Russian soldiers entered a northern district of Kyiv earlier on Friday and that “sabotage groups” were operating in the city. Intelligence reports from the Pentagon and Britain’s Ministry of Defense said Russia was attempting to encircle the capital. 
In the Donbas region to the east, Ukrainian forces held the line of contact with Russian-backed separatist groups there, the Institute for the Study of War analysis said. Near Crimea in the south, Russian forces were reported to have captured the city of Kherson. 
Russia takes aim at Kyiv 
After heavy shelling and ground fighting in cities and towns across Ukraine on Thursday, Russia turned its attention to Kyiv, the Ukrainian capital, on Friday. Missile strikes hammered Kyiv overnight, and a Russian rocket fragment landed on a residential building, injuring at least three people, the city’s mayor said. 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials The New York Times 
Ukraine’s Defense Ministry said on Thursday that Russian forces had attempted to land along the Kyiv reservoir. And on Friday morning, the ministry said that Russian troops had entered the Obolon district, a few miles north of the city center. Ukrainian officials said on Twitter that Kyiv residents should “prepare Molotov cocktails” to deter “the occupier.” 
Explosions were heard throughout the city, and Mayor Vitali Klitschko said on social media that five explosions appeared to come from the Kyiv Thermal Power Plant No. 6, in the northeast. 
Video and photographs verified by The New York Times appear to show two bridges that lead to Kyiv were destroyed — their demolition a new tactic that Ukraine seemed to be using to defend the capital. 
The New York Times 
The Times was able to verify that two crossings, on the city’s northern and western edges, were destroyed in what appeared to be an attempt to slow down the advancing Russian forces. 
Confirmed reports of ground fighting or explosions 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials The New York Times 
With its focus now on the capital, Moscow made clear that its goal was to topple the government of President Volodymyr Zelensky. Russia also said that it had taken control of the territory around the former Chernobyl nuclear plant, about 80 miles north of Kyiv. 
Where Russia’s land invasion followed air attacks 
Fighting continued across Ukraine on Thursday as Russian troops advanced into the country from the northeastern border, the east and the south. As the sun set in the country, special forces and airborne troops were closing in on Kyiv, Ukraine’s capital. Ukrainian officials said in a statement that some civilian targets had come under fire and that Russian forces had seized the former nuclear power plant at Chernobyl. 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials The New York Times 
At least 137 Ukrainian soldiers and civilians had been killed, President Volodymyr Zelensky said. Russia lost two helicopters and seven aircraft in combat, officials said. 
The ground invasion followed heavy shelling and airstrikes that began just before dawn local time. Those attacks had targeted cities, airports and military infrastructure across Ukraine. 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials The New York Times 
Russia’s Defense Ministry said that it had disabled Ukraine’s air defenses and air bases and that Russian forces had destroyed more than 70 military targets, including 11 airfields, a helicopter and four drones. 
Russia carries out a large-scale invasion of Ukraine 
On the first day of the first major land war in Europe in decades, the Russian military plunged into Ukraine by land, sea and air. Russia shelled more than a dozen cities and towns, including outside the capital, Kyiv. Russian troops moved across the Ukrainian border in several waves, landing in the port city of Odessa in the south and crossing the eastern border into Kharkiv, the second-largest city. 
Airstrikes or attacks 
BELARUS 
Russian troops crossed the border moving toward Kyiv, the capital. 
Sources: New York Times reporting; Ukrainian officials | Data as of 1:30 p.m., Feb. 24. The New York Times 
Troops moved into an area north of Kyiv, advancing on Chernihiv, about 80 miles from the capital. And they touched off a pitched battle at the highly radioactive Chernobyl exclusion zone that risked damaging the concrete-encased nuclear reactor that melted down in 1986. By sunset, Russian special forces and airborne troops had seized the Chernobyl site and were pushing into the outskirts of Kyiv. 
Some of the most intense fighting was outside of Kharkiv in the northeast, according to a senior U.S. Defense Department official. A video suggested that at least one residential building in the area was destroyed. 
And a satellite photo taken by Planet Labs on Thursday morning showed a fire and black smoke rising from the Chuhuiv Air Base outside of Kharkiv. 
Chuhuiv air base, outside of Kharkiv. Planet Labs 
Russian forces so far have been striking Ukrainian military installations and air-defense targets, using more than 100 medium- and short-range ballistic missiles, the defense official said. Russia has also used sea-launched missiles from warships in the Black Sea. 
Satellite images taken before the offensive began show some of the locations hit by airstrikes. 
Sources: Ukrainian officials; New York Times reporting; Google Earth (satellite images) 
In the south, at least 18 Ukrainian military officials were killed in an attack outside Odessa, where amphibious commandos from the Russian Navy came ashore on Thursday, according to Sergey Nazarov, an aide to Odessa’s mayor. In the east, Russian-backed separatists fought Ukrainian troops along the front line that has divided the rebels and Ukrainian forces since 2014. 
The Russian military also moved north from Crimea, headed in the direction of Kherson. 
Footage captured by security cameras at a border crossing Thursday morning showed Russian military vehicles entering from Crimea. 
The New York Times 
The Russian attacks began just minutes after President Vladimir V. Putin delivered a speech declaring the beginning of a military operation in Ukraine, and as the United Nations Security Council met in New York. 
How Russian troops closed in on Ukraine 
Since October, Russia has been building an enormous military force along Ukraine’s border, with as many as 190,000 troops in or near Ukraine, according to American and Ukrainian officials. The Russian troop presence has grown in recent weeks from scattered groupings parked at military bases and training grounds to battle-ready units arrayed in tactical formations. They appear prepared to attack Ukraine from three directions, according to military analysts: the north, east and south. 
Here's where Russia has added forces during the current buildup: 
Source: Troop positions from Rochan Consulting Note: Troops in eastern Ukraine and Transnistria include Russian-backed separatists. The New York Times 
In recent weeks, Russia has deployed the final components needed to conduct a large-scale military operation against Ukraine. The force includes fighter aircraft and attack helicopters, along with elite paratrooper units and special forces troops that would typically serve as the tip of the spear in any invasion plans, military experts say. 
Troops deployed to the north in Belarus could quickly reach the capital, Kyiv, and Russian Naval forces in the Black Sea could menace Ukraine’s southern coast. Most military analysts and officials believe that any attack will begin with a heavy incursion into Ukraine’s east, in the vicinity of two breakaway territories that Russia has long supplied with troops and arms. 
1 
Prior to current buildup: Russia has numerous military bases near its border with Ukraine and added several installations inside Crimea after 2014, when it annexed the territory. Russian troops are also stationed in Transnistria, a Russian-backed breakaway region of Moldova. 
2 
December 2021: Toward the end of last year, Russia began moving troops, tanks and heavy artillery into new positions across the country. Much of that buildup focused on two breakaway provinces in eastern Ukraine, Donetsk and Luhansk, where the Ukrainian military has been at war with Russian-backed separatists since 2014. 
3 
January: Russia started moving equipment and troops into Belarus, a close ally, in preparation for joint military drills. Russian forces in Belarus might allow Russia to open a new front on Ukraine's northern border, closer to the capital, Kyiv. 
4 
February: Russian officials announced a partial withdrawal of troops, though U.S. officials disputed this claim and said Russia had increased its presence instead. Units from the Central and Eastern Military Districts, which are some of Russia's most advanced, remain deployed. 
Donetsk and Luhansk: breakaway regions at the center of the conflict 
President Vladimir V. Putin recognized the independence of two territories in eastern Ukraine, Luhansk and Donetsk, that are largely controlled by Russian-backed separatists. Shortly after, Russian troops were ordered into the area, a move that threatens to sharply escalate the conflict with Ukraine and could be a prelude to a broader invasion. 
The separatist enclaves claim all of Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions as their territory, but they control only about one-third of the area. It was not immediately clear whether Mr. Putin would recognize the enclaves in their de facto borders or would seek to expand them by force. 
Ukraine and the rest of the world view the enclaves as Ukrainian territory. The Russian-backed separatists in the region have been embroiled in a long-running conflict with Ukrainian forces. 
Shelling intensifies in Eastern Ukraine 
Over the past several days, artillery barrages continued to target areas in east Ukraine. Shelling targeted the region around the town of Svitlodarsk — an area that includes key infrastructure such as a drinking water supply network and one of Europe’s largest fertilizer factories. 
Source: Russian positions from Rochan Consulting as of Feb. 16. The New York Times 
And at a military training ground in Baranovichi, Belarus, Russian and Belarusian forces conducted a mock battle in a joint exercise. The 10-day joint military exercises are scheduled to end on Sunday. 
Source: Russian positions from Rochan Consulting The New York Times 
Troops, tanks and heavy artillery have moved into positions that threaten to widen the conflict in Ukraine’s east and potentially open a new front on Ukraine’s northern border, closer to its capital, Kyiv. It provides a snapshot of current Russian positions. It is based on information obtained by Ukrainian and Western officials as well as independent military analysts and satellite imagery. 
Europe’s reliance on Russian gas could be reshaped 
Europe relies on Russia’s natural gas to help heat millions of homes, generate electricity and power factories. With Russian troops massed along Ukraine’s border, the continent’s heavy dependence on Russia is limiting its diplomatic options and threatening to throw its energy supplies into turmoil. 
Imports of gas from Russia to E.U. countries 
Share of country’s natural gas imports from Russia, 2020 
Source: EuroStat and the British Department for Business, Energy & Industrial Strategy Note: Austria did not report the source of its natural gas imports in 2020. Data includes both piped and liquefied natural gas. The New York Times 
If the flow of gas is interrupted, either as collateral damage from warfare or as a negotiating tactic by President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, experts worry that already high prices in a constantly shifting global market could skyrocket. Businesses may be forced to close temporarily, and if cutoffs persist, households already facing higher utility bills this winter could feel even more pain. 
Notes on disputed areas shown on the maps 
Crimea was invaded and annexed by Russia in 2014. The action was widely condemned under international law, and the territory remains disputed. 
Eastern Ukraine has been in conflict since 2014 with fighting between the Ukrainian military and Russian-backed separatists. The dotted line in the eastern region of Ukraine shows the approximate dividing line between the two sides. 
Transnistria, a Russian-backed breakaway region, lies on the eastern edge of Moldova. 
Correction: 
Feb. 22, 2022 
An earlier version of the map showing two breakaway regions at the center of the conflict in eastern Ukraine misidentified a city near the border in Russia. It is Belgorod, not Kursk. 
Correction: 
March 3, 2022 
A previous image of the Kharkiv Regional State Administration building was incorrectly labeled as the Regional Office of Security Service of Ukraine. 


Russia-Ukraine War 
A bitter and bloody war in Ukraine has devastated the country, further isolated Russia from the West and fueled economic insecurity around the world. 
Highlights 
Ukraine said it had intercepted all 31 missiles fired at the capital. But debris injured at least 13 people and damaged several buildings. 
Jake Sullivan met with President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine and his senior officials as additional U.S. aid continued to languish in the House. 
Using interest earned on frozen Russian assets held in Europe, the bloc plans to raise billions. But other ways to pay for new weapons remain elusive. 
Despite American doubts, Ukrainians say that defending places with little strategic value is worth the cost in casualties and weapons, because the attacking Russians pay an even higher price. 
The American defense secretary told a meeting of Kyiv’s backers that the fight against Russia “remains one of the great causes of our time.” 
A day after a rubber-stamp presidential election, President Vladimir Putin said he would not back down in Russia’s war against Ukraine. 
By Paul Sonne, Anton Troianovski and Nanna Heitmann 
A rubber-stamp presidential election with no real competition allows Vladimir Putin to claim strong public support for his domestic dominance and the invasion of Ukraine. 
President Vladimir V. Putin is expected to use the scale of his victory to justify more aggression in Ukraine. Many Russians are uneasy about what comes next. 
The Russian leader claimed he had been ready to release Navalny in a prisoner swap when the opposition leader died last month at an Arctic penal colony. 
People took shelter in subway stations as Russia attacked the Ukrainian capital early Thursday. 
U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd J. Austin III praised European allies on Tuesday for their continuing commitment to support Ukraine’s defense against Russia. 
Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu treads lightly with President Vladimir Putin. Russia is not responding in kind, with public criticism increasing. 
The surprise attacks, timed to Russia’s election, are meant to undermine the sense of stability in Russia and divert the country’s military resources from Ukraine. 
Russia is holding a presidential vote in the occupied regions of Ukraine to try to legitimize its rule there, expose dissenters and present a veneer of democracy. 
By Anatoly Kurmanaev, Andrew E. Kramer, Oleksandra Mykolyshyn and Oleg Matsnev 
The Group of 7 major industrial powers threatened “significant measures” against Tehran if it aids Moscow’s war against Ukraine, including a cutoff of Iran Air flights to Europe. 
Two missiles hit the same spot, Ukrainian authorities said, killing some rescuers who had responded to the first attack. 
Our Moscow-based reporter traveled around the country to gauge the mood before a presidential vote. 
By Sabrina Tavernise, Valerie Hopkins, Rob Szypko, Mary Wilson, Shannon Lin, Summer Thomad, Brendan Klinkenberg, Michael Benoist, Dan Powell, Marion Lozano and Chris Wood 
Vladimir V. Putin, casting himself as the only leader able to end the war in Ukraine, is all but assured another term in a rubber-stamp election this weekend. 
Ukrainian drone strikes have been able to hit refineries deep in Russian territory, indicating a new vulnerability. But it is unclear if that will affect the fighting. 


Russia-Ukraine WarWhat Happened on Day 6 of Russia’s Invasion of Ukraine 
Explosions struck the capital, Kyiv, and an apparent rocket strike destroyed an administration building in Kharkiv, the second largest city, killing civilians. 
Russia’s push to seize key Ukrainian cities accelerated on Wednesday, with the Russian military claiming that its forces were fully in control of Kherson, a port near the Black Sea, where the mayor said the city was “waiting for a miracle” to collect bodies and restore basic services. 
Ukrainian officials disputed Russia’s claim, saying that while the city of about 300,000 people was surrounded, the municipal government was still in place and the battle was continuing. But conditions inside the city were dire, with food and medicine running out and “many wounded civilians,” Gennady Laguta, the head of the regional security office, wrote on the Telegram app. 
If captured, Kherson would be the first major Ukrainian city to fall to Russia since President Vladimir V. Putin launched his invasion last Thursday. Russian forces were also bearing down on several other cities, including Kyiv, the capital, where blasts were reported overnight and Russian forces appeared to be moving closer toward encircling the city. Here are the latest developments: 
Russian troops are steadily moving to surround key cities in Ukraine’s south and east, with attacks reported on hospitals, schools and critical infrastructure. They continued to lay siege to central Kharkiv, where a government building was hit by an apparent rocket strike on Wednesday morning, and where supplies of food and water are running low in the city of 1.5 million. 
More than 2,000 Ukrainian civilians have died during the first 160 hours of the war, the country’s emergency services agency said in a statement, though that number could not be independently confirmed. 
Overnight, Russian troops surrounded Mariupol, a port city in the southeast. More than 120 civilians were being treated for injuries in hospitals, the mayor said. Residents baked 26 tons of bread to help withstand the coming onslaught, according to the mayor. 
President Biden predicted that the invasion of Ukraine would “leave Russia weaker and the world stronger” during a fiery State of the Union address on Tuesday night. He said the United States planned to bar Russian planes from American airspace and that the Justice Department would try to seize the assets of oligarchs and government officials allied with Mr. Putin, part of a global push to isolate Russia. 
A second round of talks between Russia and Ukraine was scheduled to take place on Wednesday after a meeting on Monday failed to make progress in ending the fighting. 
ISTANBUL — Russia’s invasion of Ukraine has presented Turkey with an acute dilemma: how to balance its status as a NATO member and ally of Washington with its strong economic and military ties to Moscow. 
The difficulty is accentuated by geography: Both Russia and Ukraine have naval forces stationed in the Black Sea basin, but a 1936 treaty gives Turkey the right to restrict access to the sea for vessels belonging to parties to a war, unless those vessels are based there. 
For now, at least, it appears to have threaded the needle. 
Turkey asked Russia in recent days not to send three warships to the Black Sea. Russia has now withdrawn its request to do so, the country’s top diplomat said late Tuesday. 
“We, in a friendly way, told Russia not to send the vessels,” Foreign Minister Mevlut Cavusoglu told the broadcaster Haber Turk. “And Russia told us that the vessels would not pass through the straits.” 
The demand from Russia, which came on Sunday and Monday, concerned four warships, Mr. Cavusoglu said. Only one was registered to a Black Sea base and was therefore eligible to pass, according to the information Turkey had. 
But Russia withdrew its request for all four vessels, and Turkey officially informed all of the parties to the 1936 Montreux Convention — under which Turkey regulates passage via two straits from the Mediterranean Sea into the Black Sea — that Russia had done so, according to Mr. Cavusoglu. 
He emphasized that Turkey would apply the treaty’s rules for both sides of the Ukraine conflict, as the accord demands. 
“Right now there are two parties to the war, Ukraine and Russia,” he said. “Neither Russia nor others should be offended here. We will apply Montreux today, tomorrow, as long as it stands.” 
The government of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan is also trying to assess the potential damage to its own economy caused by Western sanctions on Russia. The country has urged Moscow to stop its aggression against Ukraine but has not issued sanctions of its own. 
Aleksei A. Navalny, the most prominent Russian critic of President Vladimir V. Putin, called on Russians to take to the streets to protest “the aggressive war against Ukraine unleashed by our obviously insane czar.” In a statement from prison, Mr. Navalny said that Russians “must, gritting our teeth and overcoming fear, come out and demand an end to the war.” 
NEW DELHI — The death of an Indian student in the fighting in Ukraine on Tuesday has brought into focus India’s challenge of evacuating nearly 20,000 of its citizens who were stranded in the country when Russia’s invasion began. 
Naveen Shekharappa, a fourth-year medical student in Kharkiv, was killed when he left a bunker on Tuesday to fetch food, Indian officials and his family members said. 
As of late Tuesday, about 8,000 Indian citizens, mostly students, were still trying to make it out of Ukraine, according to India’s Foreign Ministry. The evacuation process has been complicated by active fighting, with the students struggling to make it to jammed border crossings. 
“Many of my friends were on the train last night to get out of Ukraine. It was scary, as the Russian border is barely 50 kilometers from our place and Russians were firing to capture territory,” said Stuti Kashyap, a second-year medical student who made it back to India on Feb. 21. 
As the conflict has intensified in recent days, Indian students have walked miles in freezing temperatures to cross into neighboring countries. Many posted videos from their underground bunkers and hostel rooms, pleading for help. Other students accused security forces at the borders of racism, saying they were made to wait longer only because they were Indians. 
India has a huge young population and an increasingly competitive job market. Seats in Indian government-run professional colleges are limited, and degrees at private universities are expensive. Thousands of students from the poorer parts of India pursue professional degrees, particularly in medicine, in places like Ukraine, where the cost can be half, if not less, of what they pay in India. 
March 2, 2022, 4:46 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 4:46 a.m. ET 
Ivan Nechepurenko 
A Kremlin spokesman said that Russia would send its delegation for a second round of talks with Ukrainian representatives late Wednesday afternoon. The spokesman, Dmitri S. Peskov, did not disclose where the talks will take place. 
The Russian military said on Wednesday that it fully controlled Kherson, a regional Ukrainian center with a strategically important location at the mouth of the Dnieper River, just northwest of Crimea. 
The claim could not immediately be verified, and Ukrainian officials said that while the city was surrounded, the battle for it was continuing. 
If Russia does take Kherson, it would become the first major Ukrainian city captured by Russia during the war. 
“The city is not experiencing shortages in food and essential goods,” the Russian Defense Ministry said in a statement. “Negotiations are ongoing between the Russian command, the administration of the city and the region to address issues of maintaining the functioning of social infrastructure facilities, ensuring law and order and the safety of the population.” 
Russia has sought to portray its military assault as one that is welcomed by most Ukrainians, even as the invasion touches off enormous human suffering. 
Oleksiy Arestovich, a military adviser to President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine, said that fighting for Kherson, which provides strategic access to the Black Sea and is near a Soviet-era water canal leading to Crimea, was continuing. 
Mr. Arestovich also said that Russian forces were attacking the city of Kryvyi Rih, about 100 miles northeast of Kherson. The city is Mr. Zelensky’s hometown. 
March 2, 2022, 3:58 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 3:58 a.m. ET 
Marc Santora 
The Ukrainian Navy accused the Russian Black Sea Fleet of using civilian vessels for cover — a tactic that it said Russian ground forces were also using. The Ukrainians accused the Russians of forcing a civilian ship, the Helt, to enter the dangerous zone of the Black Sea “so that the occupiers can cover themselves with a civilian ship as a human shield.” 
The Ukrainian Navy said the Russians had threatened to fire on the ship if it did not comply. 
“This is nothing but 21st-century piracy,” the Ukrainians said. 
March 2, 2022, 3:45 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 3:45 a.m. ET 
Liz Alderman 
Reporting from Paris 
Russia’s war on Ukraine is already creating “significant” economic spillovers to other countries, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank said, warning that a spike in the prices of oil, wheat and other commodities risks fueling already high inflation, which is likely to affect poor people the hardest. Disruptions in financial markets are likely to get worse if the conflict persists, and Western sanctions imposed on Russia and the flow of refugees from Ukraine are also likely to have major economic repercussions, the agencies said in a statement. The I.M.F. and World Bank added that they were working on finance assistance packages worth a total of over $5 billion to support Ukraine. 
China’s top financial regulator, Guo Shuqing, said Wednesday at a news conference in Beijing that China would not join financial sanctions against Russia and would maintain normal trade and financial relations with parties in the Ukraine conflict. He repeated China’s opposition to sanctions. 
March 2, 2022, 3:15 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 3:15 a.m. ET 
Marc Santora 
Reporting from Lviv, Ukraine 
President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine sought to rally the nation on Wednesday after yet another sleepless night punctuated by explosions and violence. 
“Another night of Russia’s full-scale war against us, against the people, has passed,” he said in a message posted on Facebook. “Hard night. Someone spent that night in the subway — in a shelter. Someone spent it in the basement. Someone was luckier and slept at home. Others were sheltered by friends and relatives. We’ve hardly slept for seven nights.” 
Still, he said that Ukraine would fight on. 
“Today you, Ukrainians, are a symbol of invincibility,” he said. 
March 2, 2022, 3:13 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 3:13 a.m. ET 
Anton Troianovski 
The Russian military says it now controls Kherson, a strategically important city at the mouth of the Dnieper River that would be the first major Ukrainian city that Russia has captured. The claim could not be immediately confirmed, and Ukrainian officials said that while Russian forces had surrounded the city, the battle for control was continuing. 
March 2, 2022, 2:18 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 2:18 a.m. ET 
Austin Ramzy 
Reporting from Hong Kong 
Poland’s border guard agency said Wednesday that more than 453,000 people had fled into its territory from Ukraine since Feb. 24, including 98,000 people who entered on Tuesday. The U.N. refugee agency said Tuesday that 677,000 people had fled Ukraine, and more than four million people could eventually be forced to leave. 
KYIV, Ukraine — For days, Natalia Novak has sat alone in her empty apartment, watching news of the war that is unfolding just outside her window. 
“There will be a battle now in Kyiv,” Ms. Novak reflected on Tuesday afternoon after learning of President Vladimir V. Putin’s plan to further attack the capital. 
Half a mile away, her son, Hlib Bondarenko, and her husband, Oleg Bondarenko, were stationed at a makeshift civilian checkpoint, inspecting vehicles and searching for possible Russian saboteurs. 
Hlib and Oleg are part of the newly formed Territorial Defense Forces, a special unit under the Ministry of Defense that is arming civilians to help defend cities across Ukraine. 
“I don’t get to decide if Putin is going to invade or to launch a nuclear weapon,” Hlib said. “What I get to decide is how I’m going to react to the situation around me.” 
Across the country, people are being forced to make split-second decisions in light of Russia’s invasion: stay, flee or take up arms to defend their country. 
“If I sit at home and just watch the situation unfold, the cost is going to be that the enemy might win,” Hlib said. 
At home, Ms. Novak was preparing for the possibility of a long battle. She had taped her windows, drawn her curtains and filled her bathtub with an emergency supply of water. The silence around her was regularly punctured by sirens or explosions. 
Despite her worst fears, Ms. Novak supports her family’s decision to fight. 
“I am the mother of my son,” she said. “And I don’t know if I will see him again or not. I can cry or feel sorry for myself, or be in shock — all of it.” 
She added: “But we’re past this phase. There are more important things in front of us now.” 
March 2, 2022, 1:49 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 1:49 a.m. ET 
Austin Ramzy 
An Australian air force transport plane left for Europe on Wednesday carrying military equipment and medical supplies, the joint operations command of the Australian military said on Twitter. Prime Minister Scott Morrison of Australia said on Sunday that his country would provide weapons to Ukraine through NATO, supplementing nonlethal equipment and supplies it had already contributed. 
Following the Prime Minister of Australia’s announcement on 27 February that Australia will provide defensive military assistance to Ukraine. An @AusAirForce C-17A Globemaster III departed Australia for Europe on 2 March carrying critical military equipment and medical supplies. pic.twitter.com/6D2KibU6M3 
The Canadian Embassy in China posted a photo on Twitter that it said showed two new Chinese-language banners hanging outside its building in Beijing. They said “We stand with Ukraine” and “We support Ukraine.” 
Russia’s Central Bank said that the Moscow stock exchange would remain closed to trading on Wednesday. The Central Bank closed the exchange on Monday as the Russian ruble cratered, and later extended the closure to Tuesday. 
March 2, 2022, 12:21 a.m. ET 
March 2, 2022, 12:21 a.m. ET 
Mike Ives 
Reporting from Seoul 
After the Ukrainian tennis player Elina Svitolina defeated Anastasia Potapova of Russia in the first round of the Monterrey Open in Mexico, she said she would donate any prize money that she wins at the tournament to the Ukrainian army. Svitolina, who is ranked 15th in the world, is the top seed at the Monterrey Open and won the event in 2020. 
March 1, 2022, 11:51 p.m. ET 
March 1, 2022, 11:51 p.m. ET 
Austin Ramzy 
Reporting from Hong Kong 
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia banned people from taking more than $10,000 worth of foreign currency abroad starting Wednesday, the official Tass news agency reported, as the country struggles to contain the widespread financial shock from sanctions over the Ukraine invasion. Russia’s currency has plunged in value this week, and long lines formed at A.T.M.s as residents tried to withdraw cash. Russia has tried to control the damage by more than doubling the key interest rate on Monday and forcing exporters to sell 80 percent of foreign currency revenue. 
President Biden said in his State of the Union speech on Tuesday that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had “badly miscalculated” by invading Ukraine, and vowed to make Moscow pay a steep economic “price” even as he repeated his pledge to avoid a direct military confrontation. 
The speech, originally seen as an opportunity for a struggling president to send a reassuring message on the economy to a domestic audience, was hastily repurposed to send a stark warning to a foreign leader. 
As had been widely expected, Mr. Biden announced several new moves to further punish Mr. Putin, including a ban on Russian aircraft in U.S. airspace and the creation of a task force inside the Justice Department to aggressively identify, locate and seize the assets of Russian oligarchs and officials in Mr. Putin’s inner circle. 
“We’re joining with European allies to find and seize their yachts, their luxury apartments, their private jets,” Mr. Biden said. “We’re coming for your ill-begotten gains, and tonight I’m announcing that we will join our allies in closing off American airspace to all Russian flights, further isolating Russia and adding additional squeeze on their economy.” 
Mr. Putin, the president added, “has no idea what’s coming.” 
Mr. Biden was repeatedly interrupted by applause from members of both parties as he addressed the crisis during the opening moments of his speech. 
But the Republican cheering dissipated when he warned Americans to expect economic blowback in the form of higher energy prices resulting from the sanctions. To cushion that blow, he said the United States, in conjunction with 30 allies, would release 60 million barrels of oil from reserves, with half coming from domestic supplies. 
“We’re going to be OK,” he said. 
What Mr. Biden did not say was equally noteworthy. 
He made no mention of the nation’s nuclear deterrence capabilities in response to Mr. Putin’s menacing references in recent days to putting Russia’s arsenal on a war footing. He also did not offer any clear way out of the crisis, or even a possible offramp for an increasingly bellicose and isolated Mr. Putin, short of pulling Russian troops out of Ukraine immediately. 
While Mr. Biden committed to providing Ukraine with enough weaponry, supplies and humanitarian assistance to “fight for freedom,” he said again he was not prepared to directly confront Russian troops by moving NATO forces into Ukraine or imposing a no-fly zone, as some Democrats have suggested. 
“Let me be clear: Our forces are not engaged and will not engage with the Russian forces in Ukraine,” he said. 
“Our forces are not going to Europe to fight Ukraine but to defend our NATO allies in the event Putin decides to keep moving west,” Mr. Biden added. “For that purpose, we have mobilized American ground forces, air squadrons and ships.” 
Zhenya Perepelitsa, a Ukrainian soldier with the civilian territorial defense forces, wearing military fatigue and standing in an open field covered in snow, looked into the camera and recited a verse of poetry in Persian: “What are you thinking? Who would believe, your love burned to ashes the jungle of my soul.” 
The video went viral. Shared across social media platforms like Telegram and Twitter, mostly by Iranians and Ukrainians, it touched a common nerve, a reminder that literature, particularly poetry, has the power to bond people. 
Everyone it seemed, was impressed that Mr. Perepeitsa resorted to poetry — and to a poem in a language other than his native tongue — to capture the mood of the moment. His choice of poem was also poignant. It is a Persian poem by Hamid Mosadegh addressing a lover and titled, “Who will tell you the news of my death?” 
Mr. Perepelitsa is a resident of Kyiv, a husband and a father of a little boy. He is a businessman who until last week was working in exports. He had lived in Tehran for a year and half and studied Persian, according to Alex Lourie, an American photographer in Ukraine who recorded the video. 
Mr. Lourie said in a telephone interview that he had been shooting photographs of soldiers in the outskirts of Kyiv when he and Mr. Perepelitsa started chatting. They both realized they spoke a little Persian and were familiar with Iranian culture and poetry. 
Out of the blue, Mr. Perepelitsa broke out reciting poetry. Mr. Lourie filmed it to share with his Iranian friends. He posted it on his Instagram page, tagging Mr. Perepelitsa, who has since told him that he is getting flooded with messages from Iranians in support and solidarity. 
The last post from Mr. Perepelitsa’s Instagram page, a landscape photograph of Ukraine, had 1,468 messages written Tuesday after the video went viral. Nearly all of them are from Iranians. “Love and prayers from Iran,” said one. “Iranians love you,” said another, “I wish you victory,” and “Our hearts are with you.” 
“It’s pretty weird for an American and Ukrainian to be speaking Farsi in the middle of an invasion by Russia,” Mr. Lourie said. “He was such a smart and kind guy.” 
Here is the poem translated into English: 
At times I wonder Who will tell you the news of my death? The moment when you hear of my death, from someone I wish I could see your beautiful face Shrugging your shoulders, carefree Waving your hands — it’s no matter Nodding your head, “Wow! He died! How sad!” I wish I could see it I ask myself Who would believe Your love burned to ashes The jungle of my soul 
March 1, 2022, 11:01 p.m. ET 
March 1, 2022, 11:01 p.m. ET 
Yu Young Jin 
At a U.N. General Assembly meeting on Tuesday, the representative from North Korea blamed the conflict in Ukraine on the United States and other Western countries, saying that they had undermined Europe’s security by resisting Russia's demands and continuing NATO’s eastward expansion. South Korea's representative denounced Russia's actions, saying the war was a choice made by the Russian Federation. 
March 1, 2022, 10:40 p.m. ET 
March 1, 2022, 10:40 p.m. ET 
Mike Ives 
Reporting from Seoul 
Air strikes in Zhytomyr, a city less than 100 miles west of Kyiv, damaged 10 homes and the windows of a hospital, the Ukrainian Embassy in Washington said late Tuesday, citing the country’s State Emergency Service. At least two people were killed, three others were injured and three of the 10 homes caught fire, the embassy said. 
President Biden strongly condemned the Russian invasion of Ukraine during his annual State of the Union address on Tuesday. Here are some excerpts from his prepared remarks, as released by the White House. 
PRESIDENT BIDEN: Six days ago, Russia’s Vladimir Putin sought to shake the foundations of the free world, thinking he could make it bend to his menacing ways. But he badly miscalculated. 
He thought he could roll into Ukraine and the world would roll over. Instead he met a wall of strength he never imagined. 
He met the Ukrainian people. 
From President Zelensky to every Ukrainian, their fearlessness, their courage, their determination, inspires the world. 
Groups of citizens blocking tanks with their bodies. Everyone from students to retirees teachers turned soldiers defending their homeland. 
In this struggle as President Zelensky said in his speech to the European Parliament, “Light will win over darkness.” The Ukrainian ambassador to the United States is here tonight. 
Let each of us here tonight in this chamber send an unmistakable signal to Ukraine and to the world. 
Please rise if you are able and show that, yes, we the United States of America stand with the Ukrainian people. 
Throughout our history we’ve learned this lesson when dictators do not pay a price for their aggression they cause more chaos. 
They keep moving. 
And the costs and the threats to America and the world keep rising. 
That’s why the NATO Alliance was created to secure peace and stability in Europe after World War II. 
The United States is a member along with 29 other nations. 
It matters. American diplomacy matters. American resolve matters. 
Putin’s latest attack on Ukraine was premeditated and unprovoked. 
He rejected repeated efforts at diplomacy. 
He thought the West and NATO wouldn’t respond. And he thought he could divide us at home. Putin was wrong. We were ready. Here is what we did. 
We prepared extensively and carefully. 
We spent months building a coalition of other freedom-loving nations from Europe and the Americas to Asia and Africa to confront Putin. 
I spent countless hours unifying our European allies. We shared with the world in advance what we knew Putin was planning and precisely how he would try to falsely justify his aggression. 
We countered Russia’s lies with truth. 
And now that he has acted, the free world is holding him accountable. 
Along with 27 members of the European Union, including France, Germany, Italy, as well as countries like the United Kingdom, Canada, Japan, Korea, Australia, New Zealand, and many others, even Switzerland. 
We are inflicting pain on Russia and supporting the people of Ukraine. Putin is now isolated from the world more than ever. 
Together with our allies — we are right now enforcing powerful economic sanctions. 
We are cutting off Russia’s largest banks from the international financial system. Preventing Russia’s central bank from defending the Russian ruble, making Putin’s $630 Billion “war fund” worthless. 
We are choking off Russia’s access to technology that will sap its economic strength and weaken its military for years to come. 
Tonight, I say to the Russian oligarchs and corrupt leaders who have bilked billions of dollars off this violent regime, “No more.” 
The U.S. Department of Justice is assembling a dedicated task force to go after the crimes of Russian oligarchs. 
We are joining with our European allies to find and seize their yachts their luxury apartments their private jets. We are coming for your ill-begotten gains. 
And tonight I am announcing that we will join our allies in closing off American air space to all Russian flights, further isolating Russia and adding an additional squeeze on their economy. He has no idea what’s coming. 
The Ruble has lost 30 percent of its value. 
The Russian stock market has lost 40 percent of its value, and trading remains suspended. The Russian economy is reeling, and Putin alone is to blame. 
Together with our allies, we are providing support to the Ukrainians in their fight for freedom. Military assistance. Economic assistance. Humanitarian assistance. 
We are giving more than $1 billion in direct assistance to Ukraine, and will continue to aid the Ukrainian people as they defend their country and help ease their suffering. 
But let me be clear: Our forces are not engaged and will not engage in conflict with Russian forces in Ukraine. 
Our forces are not going to Europe to fight in Ukraine, but to defend our NATO Allies — in the event that Putin decides to keep moving west. 
For that purpose we’ve mobilized American ground forces, air squadrons, and ship deployments to protect NATO countries including Poland, Romania, Latvia, Lithuania, and Estonia. 
As I have made crystal clear: The United States and our allies will defend every inch of territory of NATO countries with the full force of our collective power. Every single inch. 
And we remain cleareyed. The Ukrainians are fighting back with pure courage. But the next few days, weeks and months will be hard on them. 
Putin has unleashed violence and chaos. But while he may make gains on the battlefield, he will pay a continuing high price over the long run. 
And a proud Ukrainian people, who have known 30 years of independence, have repeatedly shown that they will not tolerate anyone who tries to take their country backward. 
To all Americans, I will be honest with you, as I always promised I would be. A Russian dictator, invading a foreign country, has costs around the world. 
And I’m taking robust action to make sure the pain of our sanctions is targeted at Russia’s economy. And I will use every tool at our disposal to protect American businesses and consumers. 
Tonight, I can announce that the United States has worked with 30 other countries to release 60 million barrels of oil from reserves around the world. 
America will lead that effort, releasing 30 million barrels from our own Strategic Petroleum Reserve. And we stand ready to do more if necessary, unified with our allies. 
These steps will help blunt gas prices here at home. And I know the news about what’s happening can seem alarming. 
But I want you to know that we are going to be OK. 
When the history of this era is written, Putin’s war on Ukraine will have left Russia weaker and the rest of the world stronger. 
While it shouldn’t have taken something so terrible for people around the world to see what’s at stake, now everyone sees it clearly. 
We see the unity among leaders of nations, a more unified Europe a more unified West. And we see unity among the people who are gathering in cities in large crowds around the world even in Russia to demonstrate their support for the people of Ukraine. 
In the battle between democracy and autocracy, democracies are rising to the moment, and the world is clearly choosing the side of peace and security. 
This is a real test. It’s going to take time. So let us continue to draw inspiration from the iron will of the Ukrainian people. 
To our fellow Ukrainian Americans who forge a deep bond that connects our two nations we stand with you. 
Putin may circle Kyiv with tanks, but he will never gain the hearts and souls of the Ukrainian people. 
He will never extinguish their love of freedom. He will never weaken the resolve of the free world. 
March 1, 2022, 10:16 p.m. ET 
March 1, 2022, 10:16 p.m. ET 
Austin Ramzy 
Oil prices continued to climb and markets in Asia fell on Wednesday as Russia’s invasion of Ukraine and the impact of expanding sanctions continue to unnerve investors. The Nikkei 225 in Japan was down 1.9 percent by midday, while the Hang Seng index in Hong Kong fell 0.9 percent. The Kospi composite index dropped 0.1 percent. Oil futures were up sharply, with American West Texas intermediate crude futures rising 5.2 percent, while the Brent benchmark was up 5.7 percent. 
March 1, 2022, 9:18 p.m. ET 
March 1, 2022, 9:18 p.m. ET 
Glenn Thrush 
Reporting from Washington 
President Biden began his speech by acknowledging Ukraine’s ambassador to the United States, Oksana Markarova, who stood in the House gallery, one hand over her heart and the other holding a small Ukrainian flag. “Bright, strong, resolved,” he said of her as the chamber offered a standing ovation to Ms. Markova, who stood next to the first lady, Dr. Jill Biden. “We the United States of America stand with the Ukrainian people.” 
Two major U.S. manufacturers, Boeing and Ford Motor, have suspended their business activities in Russia as the country escalated its war in Ukraine. 
Boeing said on Tuesday that it had halted major operations in its Moscow office and temporarily closed another office in Kyiv, Ukraine. The company also said it had ceased providing parts, maintenance and technical support services to Russian airlines. In recent days, countries around the world have imposed sanctions on Russian carriers, limiting their ability to use leased planes; fly over Western Europe; or buy spare parts. 
Boeing employs several thousand people in Russia, Ukraine and a handful of former Soviet states, an operation that includes a major design center in Moscow. The company also runs a flight training campus and research and technology center in the city and has a joint venture in Russia with VSMPO-AVISMA, Boeing’s largest titanium supplier. 
Boeing has been trying to diversify its titanium supply in recent years, and it said it had enough of the metal on hand to keep making commercial aircraft in the near term. 
Ford, which once had three plants in Russia, is suspending its remaining operations in the country indefinitely because of the invasion. The automaker is part of a joint venture that makes small delivery vans at a plant in Yelabuga, more than 600 miles east of Moscow. It also works with a distributor that sells imported Ford vehicles. 
“Ford is deeply concerned about the invasion of Ukraine and the resultant threats to peace and stability,” the company said in a statement. “The situation has compelled us to reassess our operations in Russia.” 
Ford shut down its three plants in Russia in 2019 as part of an effort to turn around its struggling European operation. 
Videos verified by The New York Times on Tuesday show major damage to at least two large apartment buildings in the town of Borodyanka, about 35 miles northwest of Kyiv. The videos show that parts of both five-floor buildings had collapsed, including a section roughly 65 feet wide. 
The buildings surround a large courtyard containing Pinocchio Kindergarten, whose playground was also damaged. The country’s schools have been closed since Feb. 21 according to the Ukrainian government. 
Ukrainian news media outlets did not immediately report fatalities or numbers of injured. But witnesses in the videos said they were searching for survivors after hearing voices under rubble. Witnesses and Ukraine’s deputy foreign minister said that the damage was the result of Russian airstrikes. 
Other videos and photos posted on social media on Tuesday showed heavy fighting throughout Borodyanka. In a roundabout next to the devastated apartment buildings, other structures were damaged, and a vehicle identified by open source researchers as a Russian Tornado-G multiple rocket launcher sat burning. And shelling from tanks hit another apartment building half a mile away. 
Japan’s foreign ministry said on Wednesday that it was temporarily closing its embassy in Kyiv because the situation in the city has become more “extreme.” Diplomats have been relocated to Lviv, near the border with Poland, where they are working to evacuate Japanese nationals seeking to leave Ukraine. 
March 1, 2022, 7:57 p.m. ET 
March 1, 2022, 7:57 p.m. ET 
Dai Wakabayashi 
Google said it would no longer permit articles from Russian state-funded media to appear in Google News and its other news-related features such as Top News and the News tab. 
WASHINGTON — President Biden will announce Tuesday that the United States will ban Russian aircraft from flying through American airspace, following moves by the European Union and Canada to shut airspace to passenger flights from Russia and to planes used by Russian oligarchs, two administration officials said Tuesday. 
Mr. Biden will announce the ban during his State of the Union address Tuesday evening. It would prohibit planes that are owned or registered by Russians from flying over the United States, hampering their ability to travel. It was the latest coordinated effort by Mr. Biden’s administration and the NATO allies to inflict pain on President Vladimir V. Putin and his closest supporters. 
It was not clear how quickly the ban, which was reported earlier by The Wall Street Journal, will be put in place. Mr. Putin has already retaliated against the European ban by canceling flights from European airlines over Russian territory. 
The ban would prevent Aeroflot, Russia’s national airline, from making flights to the United States, or from traveling over the United States on its way to other destinations. 
But the effect of the ban could be limited. Aeroflot is the only Russian airline that flies between that country and the United States, according to flight information from Cirium, an aviation data provider. Last year, Aeroflot operated 761 flights from Moscow into the United States, to airports in New York, Los Angeles, Miami and the Washington, D.C., region. The airline had 55 flights scheduled into the United States for March. 
Russian airlines also have little need to traverse the skies over the United States to get to other destinations. 
Russia is widely expected to retaliate with a reciprocal ban, as it has with flight bans imposed by dozens of other countries, according to experts. That, too, will have limited effect, experts say. 
American Airlines, which had used Russian airspace en route to India, started rerouting flights before the war began. United Airlines, which was similarly exposed, said on Tuesday that it had temporarily stopped flights to India and will avoid Russian airspace. Cargo carriers UPS and FedEx had already stopped deliveries to Russia, though a ban on flying over the country could slow some shipments as flights are rerouted. 
The move is the latest in a series of steps Mr. Biden has taken to punish Mr. Putin after similar actions by his counterparts in Europe and Canada. The president issued sanctions on a Russian-owned natural gas line last week, days after Germany took a similar action. 
The International Skating Union, figure skating’s world governing body, said it would bar all Russian and Belarusian skaters from international events, a ban that apparently will include the world championships later this month in France. That would prevent Anna Shcherbakova, the Olympic women’s singles champion, from defending her 2021 world title. 
Russia ran into trouble at the Winter Games when the star skater Kamila Valieva tested positive for a banned substance, but the skating body has now dropped Russia not because of doping but in response to the country’s invasion of Ukraine. 
The top tennis organizations will bar Russia and Belarus from team events but will continue to allow their players to compete as individuals, though without national identification. Similarly, the Russian F1 driver Nikita Mazepin will be allowed to race for Haas under rules announced Tuesday by the Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile, motorsport’s world governing body. 
The world governing body for track and field barred Russian and Belarusian athletes and officials from events “for the foreseeable future,” including this summer’s World Athletics Championships, which will take place in Oregon, as well as the World Athletics Indoor Championships in Belgrade, Serbia, and other competitions. 
And the International Cycling Union, as part of a broad range of measures announced on Tuesday, banned teams from Russia and Belarus from international competition. The measure will effectively shut down a professional team co-sponsored by Gazprom, the Russian state-controlled energy company, which normally makes appearances in top-level events including the Giro d’Italia. 
Credit...Tyler Hicks, Laetitia Vancon and Lynsey Addario for The New York Times 
For weeks, a Russian invasion had been feared, but once the attacks began on Thursday, hitting the country from the north, east and south, the war became unavoidably tangible for Ukraine’s people, a full-scale military conflict that once seemed unimaginable in Europe in the post-Cold War era. These images are a visual documentation of a populace coping with the initial stages of an invasion, struggling with newfound uncertainty and fear. 
Iran’s supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, blamed the United States for the current crisis in Ukraine in a live speech broadcast to his nation on Tuesday. 
Mr. Khamenei, who considers Russia an Iranian ally, did not condemn President Vladimir V. Putin for invading Ukraine. In fact, he did not mention Russia at all in his speech. He said Iran had a general policy of opposing wars and invasions of sovereign states, and called for an end to the conflict in Ukraine. 
He then veered into an anti-American tirade. He compared the U.S. government to a collective mafia of weapons, economics and politics, and said the United States created, thrived and fed on crises around the globe. 
“In my opinion, Ukraine is a victim of this policy today,” said Mr. Khamenei. “A victim of American policies. It’s America that brought Ukraine to this point.” 
Mr. Khamenei said that the United States had interfered with Ukraine’s domestic politics, fueling covert coups and so-called “color revolutions” against pro-Russian leaders, and sending its senators to participate in Ukrainian protests. 
The Islamic Republic has long been paranoid about foreign interference and has cracked down on dissent and anti-government protesters by labeling them agents of foreign coups and color revolutions. 
The majority of the Iranian public, however, is deeply suspicious of Russia’s motives in cozying up to Iran and is decidedly against the invasion of Ukraine. 
In recent days, some Iranians have taken to social media and to the streets to protest Russia’s actions. On Saturday night, demonstrators chanted “Death to Putin” and “Death to supporters of Putin” at a rally in front of the Ukrainian Embassy in Tehran, in defiance of the government. 
On Monday, the families of victims of Ukraine International Airlines Flight 752 — which was shot down by Iran’s Revolutionary Guards in January 2020, killing all 176 on board — also held a protest outside the embassy. 
The families held photos of the loved ones they lost and chanted, “Death to warmongers,” “Death to criminals” and “Death to Putin and supporters of Putin,” according to videos posted on the social media accounts of the Association of Families of the flight. 
The association said in a tweet that security forces had attacked the families and injured some of the parents of the victims. 
“The regime’s forces did not tolerate slogans against Russia and Putin,” the tweet said. “They violently attacked the mothers and fathers and dragged them to the police station.” 
Show more 
March 1, 2022, 5:56 p.m. ET 
March 1, 2022, 5:56 p.m. ET 
Valerie Plesch 
A protest organized by Ukrainian and American activists has formed outside the White House before President Biden's State of the Union address. 
Jewish groups and institutions around the world condemned a strike in Ukraine’s capital, Kyiv, in the area of the Babyn Yar Holocaust Memorial Center, where tens of thousands of Jews were killed by the Nazis in a two-day massacre during World War II. 
It was not clear to what extent the memorial was damaged by the strike. The memorial is close to Kyiv’s main radio and television tower in Kyiv, which was hit by a projectile. President Volodymyr Zelensky of Ukraine said at least five people were killed in the area. 
Mr. Zelensky, who is Jewish, also alluded to the site’s history, saying on Twitter, “What is the point of saying ‘never again’ for 80 years, if the world stays silent when a bomb drops on the same site of Babyn Yar?” 
On Facebook, the Babyn Yar Holocaust Memorial Center said that Russian forces had struck the site but did not describe whether there was damage. 
Natan Sharansky, the chair of the memorial’s advisory board and a former Soviet dissident, said in the statement that President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia had sought “to distort and manipulate the Holocaust to justify an illegal invasion of a sovereign democratic country” and called the move “utterly abhorrent.” 
Mr. Sharansky added: “It is symbolic that he starts attacking Kyiv by bombing the site of the Babyn Yar, the biggest of Nazi massacre.” 
More than 33,000 Jews were killed at the site over a two-day period according to historians. In addition, mass shootings, including of Roma people and Soviet prisoners of war, took place there throughout the war. 
Yad Vashem, the Holocaust memorial museum in Israel, called for the site to be preserved, saying it had “irreplaceable value for research, education and commemoration of the Holocaust.” 
“Rather than being subjected to blatant violence, sacred sites like Babi Yar must be protected,” it said in a statement. 
Yair Lapid, Israel’s foreign minister, said on Twitter that the country would help with repairing damage to the memorial. 
The U.S. Holocaust Memorial Museum said it was outraged at “the damage inflicted on the Babyn Yar memorial by Russia’s attack today.” The Holocaust Memorial Day Trust, a British charity, said it was “horrified” to learn of the strike. 
“I’m beyond devastated,” said Karyn Grossman Gershon, the chief executive of Project Kesher, a nonprofit that aims to build Jewish community by empowering women leaders. 
The massacre at Babyn Yar, also known as Babi Yar, took place in late September 1941. Soon after the German army entered Kyiv, the city’s Jews were told to gather near a train station in order to be resettled. Crowds were forced to undress and gather in a ravine, where they were shot. The Nazis wiped out nearly the entire Jewish population of Kyiv over the course of the war. 
Last year, on the 80th anniversary, Mr. Zelensky unveiled a modern art installation at the site. Peter Hayes, a professor emeritus of Holocaust studies at Northwestern University, said that it only started to become a more formally recognized landmark since Ukrainian independence in 1991. 
“The Soviets for a long time did not want to acknowledge that the victims were almost exclusively Jewish, and rather kept referring to it as a place where Soviet citizens had been massacred and so forth,” he said. 
Lawmakers at a congressional hearing Tuesday discussed the possibilities of having American intelligence provide more direct assistance to the Ukrainian military, including potentially on the ground operatives to help stop a Russian military column moving toward Kyiv. 
Using American covert intelligence operations to assist Ukraine was first raised at a hearing of the Senate Armed Services Committee by Roger Zakheim, the Washington director of the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and Institute. Mr. Zakheim, a former general counsel for the House Armed Services Committee, said that the United States should use intelligence agency assets to covertly advise the Ukrainian military and help them destroy the troops moving on Kyiv. 
“The United States, our intelligence agencies have an opportunity to thwart or to at least arrest the advance of that column,” Mr. Zakheim said, in response to a question from Senator Roger Wicker, Republican of Mississippi. “And it would strike me as an important operational action that could have strategic implications.” 
An American president can authorize the C.I.A. to operate covertly in a conflict, though American officials have, unsurprisingly, declined to comment on whether such options are under consideration. 
Mr. Zakheim also said that intelligence forces could continue advising Ukrainian forces as they had previously been doing before being ordered to leave the country in mid February. 
The training American Special Operation Forces had provided for the Ukrainian military before the invasion was effective, Mr. Zakheim said, and “explains why the Ukrainians have been able to thwart Russian advances today.” 
The idea caught the interest of several lawmakers, including Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia. 
“You said we must stop that convoy from getting to Kyiv,” Mr. Manchin said. “OK, there’s only certain ways we can stop that convoy. Can you be a little bit more explicit on how we should be doing it?” 
Mr. Zakheim responded that the United States should use intelligence forces to “sabotage the roads” using either people on the ground or unmanned drones. 
Mr. Manchin said he agreed with unmanned operations. But other senators seemed at least intrigued by putting operatives closer to the front lines. 
Senator Tom Cotton, Republican of Arkansas, said that the United States should provide intelligence to help Ukraine strike at Russian forces, but suggested it should be American operatives working near or alongside the Ukrainian military rather than officials in Washington. 
“One lesson of Iraq and Afghanistan is that you don’t want to have what we call the 5,000 mile screwdriver operating from the White House,” Mr. Cotton said. 
Later in the hearing, lawmakers discussed ways of increasing support for the Ukrainians without making the United States a direct party to the conflict. 
Elsewhere on Capitol Hill, Senator Ben Sasse, Republican of Nebraska and a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee, told reporters that the United States should provide more intelligence to the Ukrainian military. 
“This is a matter of life and death for Ukrainians and information about where an invading Russian tank was 12 hours ago does squat to prevent civilian bloodshed,” Mr. Sasse said. 


You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. 
Troop Deaths and Injuries in Ukraine War Near 500,000, U.S. Officials Say 
Ukraine and Russia have lost a staggering number of troops as Kyiv’s counteroffensive drags on. A lack of rapid medical care has added to the toll. 
The total number of Ukrainian and Russian troops killed or wounded since the war in Ukraine began 18 months ago is nearing 500,000, U.S. officials said, a staggering toll as Russia assaults its next-door neighbor and tries to seize more territory. 
The officials cautioned that casualty figures remained difficult to estimate because Moscow is believed to routinely undercount its war dead and injured, and Kyiv does not disclose official figures. But they said the slaughter intensified this year in eastern Ukraine and has continued at a steady clip as a nearly three-month-old counteroffensive drags on. 
Russia’s military casualties, the officials said, are approaching 300,000. The number includes as many as 120,000 deaths and 170,000 to 180,000 injured troops. The Russian numbers dwarf the Ukrainian figures, which the officials put at close to 70,000 killed and 100,000 to 120,000 wounded. 
But Russians outnumber Ukrainians on the battlefield almost three to one, and Russia has a larger population from which to replenish its ranks. 
Ukraine has around 500,000 troops, including active-duty, reserve and paramilitary troops, according to analysts. By contrast, Russia has almost triple that number, with 1,330,000 active-duty, reserve and paramilitary troops — most of the latter from the Wagner Group. 
The Biden administration’s last public estimate of casualties came in November, when Gen. Mark A. Milley, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said that more than 100,000 troops on each side had been killed or wounded since the war began in February 2022. At the time, officials said privately that the numbers were closer to 120,000 killed and wounded. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. 


Russia-Ukraine war: conflict could spin out of control due to Nato actions, claims Russia – as it happened 
Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova says war could expand geographically. This live blog is closed 
Live feed 
Russia: Ukraine war could spin out of control due to Nato actions 
Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova has warned that the war in Ukraine could spin out of control due to the actions of countries in the west. 
She told Reuters she believed the west was walking “on the edge of the abyss” and pushing the world to the edge too with its actions over Ukraine. 
She said that the war in Ukraine could spin out of control and expand geographically due to the ill-considered actions of one or two member states from the Nato military alliance, and advised the West to give up on the idea of strategically defeating Russia. 
In a message on Telegram, Zakharova accused Kyiv of “terrorist activities”, which she linked to attempts to disrupt the forthcoming Russian election. 
Earlier, in a televised interview, president Vladimir Putin said that Russia would be stationing troops and equipment on the border with Finland, where there were none before, as a result of Finland and Sweden joining the Nato alliance. 
Closing summary 
This blog is now closing. Below is a summary of today’s stories: 
Lithuanian president Gitanas Nauseda blamed a hammer attack on Leonid Volkov, the top aide to late Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny who lives in Lithuania, on Moscow, saying it was clearly pre-planned and ties in with other provocations against the Baltic nation. Addressing Russian president Vladimir Putin, Nauseda said: “I can only say one thing to Putin – nobody is afraid of you here.” 
Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova has warned that the war in Ukraine could spin out of control due to the actions of countries in the west. She told Reuters she believed the west was walking “on the edge of the abyss” and pushing the world to the edge too with its actions over Ukraine. 
Russia has claimed to have thwarted a drone attack on a thermal power plant in Belgorod, according to state-owned Russian news agency Tass. The agency quotes State Duma deputy Alexander Khinshtein saying: “When [Ukrainian forces were] trying to break through the state border in the Belgorod region, military personnel and employees of the Russian Guard did an excellent job … six attack drones were neutralised, including when approaching the Belgorod thermal power plant.” 
Ukrainian justice minister Denys Maliuska said on Wednesday that he had received “quite optimistic” messages from lawmakers in the US House of Representatives and Senate about the passage of a bill that would provide aid for Ukraine. “What we call for is to put aside any divisions or political disputes aimed at internal needs, since we see that in both camps – Republicans and Democrats – they all agree that support shall be provided,” Maliuska told reporters during a news conference at the Ukrainian embassy in Washington. 
Vladimir Putin signalled that he intends to boost forces along the country’s border with Finland. The Russian leader criticised Finland and Sweden’s Nato accession and said: “This is an absolutely meaningless step [for Finland and Sweden] from the point of view of ensuring their own national interests. We didn’t have troops there [at the Finnish border], now they will be there.” 
European lawmakers are stepping up calls for the return of Ukrainian children who had been forcibly moved to Russia. “At least 20,000 Ukrainian children have been forcibly deported to Russia or relocated to Belarus,” said Michaela Šojdrová, a Czech centre-right member of the European parliament. 
Ukrainian minister: 'quite optimistic' messages from US politicians about Ukraine aid bill 
Ukrainian justice minister Denys Maliuska said on Wednesday that he had received “quite optimistic” messages from lawmakers in the US House of Representatives and Senate about the passage of a bill that would provide aid for Ukraine, Reuters reports. 
“What we call for is to put aside any divisions or political disputes aimed at internal needs, since we see that in both camps – Republicans and Democrats – they all agree that support shall be provided,” Maliuska told reporters during a news conference at the Ukrainian embassy in Washington. 
Maliuska said he and deputy justice minister Iryna Mudra met with a large number of lawmakers during their visit to Washington, but not with house speaker Mike Johnson. 
He said they were reassured that US lawmakers understood the stakes involved for Ukraine’s two-year struggle to repel Russian forces and warned that failure to secure the funds would result in “a disaster on the battlefield.” 
He said he expected US assistance to be provided in the short term, and that it was essentially a matter of resolving certain technical issues. 
Asked about a proposal to transform $8.5bn of the $61bn in direct budget assistance proposed for Ukraine into a loan, instead of a grant, Maliuska said the final decision would be up to the finance ministry. He said Kyiv would clearly prefer a grant, but would probably accept was offered. 
“If this sort of discussion will delay the process of the provision of financial assistance, then let’s put the discussion aside and take whatever is given,” he said. 
The first deliveries of artillery ammunition under a Czech-led plan to boost supplies by buying shells outside Europe should reach Ukraine by June at the latest, a senior Czech official said on Wednesday, Reuters reports. 
"At the moment we are supplying large-calibre ammunition secured under previous orders. First deliveries from the so-called 'Czech ammunition initiative' can be expected in Ukraine in June at the latest," national security adviser Tomas Pojar told Reuters. 
Norway's prime minister Jonas Gahr Stoere will meet with leaders of rival political parties in parliament on Thursday to discuss the upcoming long-term plan for the country's military, the government said in a statement on Wednesday, Reuters reports. 
Stoere has said the minority Labour-led coalition government plans to raise military spending as Norway, a NATO member, lags the defence alliance's goal of each nation spending at least 2% of their gross domestic product. 
The prime minister, the finance minister and the defence minister will be present at a press conference on Thursday morning, the government said. 
Russia: Ukraine war could spin out of control due to Nato actions 
Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova has warned that the war in Ukraine could spin out of control due to the actions of countries in the west. 
She told Reuters she believed the west was walking “on the edge of the abyss” and pushing the world to the edge too with its actions over Ukraine. 
She said that the war in Ukraine could spin out of control and expand geographically due to the ill-considered actions of one or two member states from the Nato military alliance, and advised the West to give up on the idea of strategically defeating Russia. 
In a message on Telegram, Zakharova accused Kyiv of “terrorist activities”, which she linked to attempts to disrupt the forthcoming Russian election. 
Earlier, in a televised interview, president Vladimir Putin said that Russia would be stationing troops and equipment on the border with Finland, where there were none before, as a result of Finland and Sweden joining the Nato alliance. 
Russia claims it thwarted drone attack on Belgorod thermal power plant 
State-owned Russian news agency Tass is reporting that Russia has claimed to have thwarted a drone attack on a thermal power plant in Belgorod. 
It quotes State Duma deputy Alexander Khinshtein saying: 
When [Ukrainian forces were] trying to break through the state border in the Belgorod region, military personnel and employees of the Russian Guard did an excellent job … six attack drones were neutralised, including when approaching the Belgorod thermal power plant. 
Moldova’s foreign minister Mihail Popșoi is in Kyiv where he has met his Ukrainian counterpart Dmytro Kuleba. Kuleba has spoken to the media about the meeting, assuring Moldova of Ukraine’s support. 
Ukrinform quotes Kuleba saying: 
I’d like to publicly assure my colleague and all citizens of Moldova that Ukraine will continue to firmly defend not only its freedom and independence, but also the peace and tranquility in Moldova. Ukraine is interested in a strong democratic pro-European Moldova, and Moldova is also interested in the same Ukraine. Together we can help each other. 
Kuleba added “We fully support the integrity of Moldova, we condemn any attempts to involve Russia in solving Moldova’s domestic political issues.” 
Death toll rises to three in Russian overnight attacks on eastern Ukraine 
Reuters reports that at least three people were killed in overnight Russian drone and bomb attacks in Ukraine’s eastern Sumy and Donetsk regions, local officials said on Wednesday. 
Russians dropped a bomb on Myrnohrad town in Donetsk region, killing two and injuring five people, local governor Vadym Filashkin said on the Telegram messaging app. 
The Sumy regional military administration said a Russian drone hit an apartment block overnight. 
One body was pulled out from under the rubble in Sumy as rescuers continued working at the site, emergency services said on Telegram. Eight people were injured, and more may stay under the collapsed building constructions. 
The administration said 30 apartments of a five-storey residential building were damaged, 15 of them largely destroyed. 
Late on Tuesday, two apartment buildings caught fire as a result of a Russian missile attack in the central Ukrainian city of Kryvyi Rih. The death toll there rose to five people on Wednesday, local authorities said, with at least 50 more injured. 
President Volodymyr Zelenskiy, who was born and raised in the city, praised rescue teams on Telegram and vowed Russia would be brought to account. 
Russian officials in regions bordering Ukraine on Wednesday reported Kyiv had launched a sweeping drone attack for the second night in a row, again targeting energy facilities. 
Russian foreign ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova claimed on Wednesday that the US planned to stage cyber-attacks on Russia’s electronic voting system during its presidential election from to be held this week. 
Zakharova also said Washington had tasked US non-governmental organisations with undermining the election by decreasing voter turnout. 
Her comments echoed similar accusations by Russia’s foreign intelligence service made this week. 
Reuters reports that Polish farmers protesting at the Dorohusk border crossing with Ukraine will let all trucks stuck there pass through as a gesture of goodwill, a protest leader told state news agency PAP on Wednesday. 
More on this story 
More on this story 
EU agrees in principle to give profits from frozen Russian assets to Ukraine 
Russia-Ukraine war: Moscow using ‘fear’ to rule occupied Ukraine, says UN human rights report – as it happened 
Ukraine says it could make 2m drones a year with financial help from west 
Ukraine war briefing: put all seized Russian earnings into the fight, EU leaders told 
Czech Republic to deliver thousands of extra artillery shells to Ukraine 
Ukraine hits oil and electricity facilities with drone attacks across Russia 
West condemns ‘undemocratic’ Russian election as results show Putin landslide 
Today in Focus 
Why are Indian and Nepali men ending up on the frontline in Ukraine? 
ABC defends broadcasting Russia-Ukraine war documentary after ambassador calls it ‘bowl of vomit’ 
German living standards plummeted after Russia invaded Ukraine, say economists 


Russia-Ukraine war latest: 'Situation unstable' in Ukraine's frontline areas - as Russian region hit in fresh attack 
The British Ministry of Defence says the frontline situation in areas like Donetsk is unstable due to Ukrainian ammunition and personnel shortages. Meanwhile, Russia has seized control over a village in Donetsk, while a border region has faced another attack. 
We're wrapping up our rolling updates on the Ukraine war for this evening. 
Scroll through the blog to find out what happened during the day. 
19:47:17 
Ukrainian defence troops 'stabilise situation' in east, says top commander 
Defence forces have managed to "stabilise the situation" in eastern Ukraine, the country's top commander has said. 
Oleksandr Syrskyi, commander-in-chief of Ukraine's armed forces, said he discussed the situation at the front with French army chief Thierry Burkar in a phone call. 
"Informed [him] about the situation on the battlefield," he wrote on Facebook. "In particular, that the defence forces of Ukraine managed to stabilise the situation in the east of Ukraine at the moment." 
Mr Syrskyi said he expressed thanks to the French government for its "constant and consistent support" for Kyiv. 
19:22:23 
War currently 'very much in Russia's hand', says military analyst 
The way the Ukraine war is currently going means Russia can maintain the frontline as it is while preparing for a larger scale war with NATO in the future, an analyst has said. 
Karolina Hird, of the Institute for the Study of War, said the war is "very much in Russia's hand" at the moment. 
"The lines are slow and stable and Ukraine does not have the Western resourcing that it needs to pursue its own offensive operations," she told Sky News. 
"This is enough of a situation for Russia to be able to maintain the line as it is and prepare for war with NATO in three to five or potentially more years." 
Vladimir Putin is likely to use his new presidential term to "lock in financial changes" and up expenditure to prepare for a long war in Ukraine and "project power towards NATO in the long run", said Ms Hird. 
Despite heavy Russian casualties on the battlefield, mobilisation efforts mean Moscow can replace troops on a virtually 1-1 basis, she said. 
This is "forcing Ukraine to expend already scarce material and manpower" while waiting for Western aid, she added. 
Asked how a future conventional war against NATO could play out, Ms Hird said it wouldn't necessarily be "tanks rolling across borders" as it was with the invasion of Ukraine. 
It would likely involve a "mixture of military threats against NATO members" as well as "more hybrid manipulations", she said. 
19:00:24 
Ukraine building defensive fortifications in Kharkiv in preparation for Russian offensive 
A defensive fortification effort is underway in Ukraine's northeastern Kharkiv region, a Ukrainian official has said. 
Workers have been carving out deep trenches fortified with wooden planks and cement throughout the day. 
Ukrainian soldiers are bracing for a new Russian breakthrough attempt in Kupiansk, in the Kharkiv region, which they have been fiercely defending against Russian forces. The trenches will support Ukrainian troops in the event of a retreat from the city. 
Oleh Syniehubov, head of the regional military administration, said workers were having to de-mine as they went as the fortifications were being built in a de-occupied area. 
18:34:43 
IOC targeted in prank calls after announcing ceremony ban for Russian athletes 
International Olympic Committee President Thomas Bach has fallen victim to fake calls by Russian pranksters. 
The IOC said it had calls with "a person pretending to be the chair of the African Union Commission" asking to discuss a statement on politicisation of the sport by Russia. 
A similar stunt was carried out by a pair of Russian comedians against Italian Prime Minister Giorgia Meloni in November, when she was tricked into discussing international "fatigue" over the Ukraine war with people she thought were Africa Union representatives. 
"There appears to have been a new incident in the Russian disinformation and defamation campaign against the International Olympic Committee and its president," the IOC said in a statement. 
Earlier this week, the IOC announced that Russian and Belarusian athletes would not take part in the Paris Olympic opening ceremony due to the war. 
The Kremlin hit out at the move, saying it did not "paint the IOC in a good light". 
18:16:18 
Russia launches three drone attacks at Nikopol 
A city in eastern Ukraine has come under drone attack on three different occasions today, an official has said. 
Serhiy Lysak, governor of the Dnipro region, said a kamikaze drone targeted Nikopol this morning, with two more drones attacks launched this evening. 
"No one was hurt by enemy terror today," he said. 
Mr Lysak did not say whether the drones were shot down or whether they caused any damage. 
17:40:05 
Russian pupils 'watch Tucker Carlson's Putin interview as part of history quiz' 
A history quiz taken in schools across Russia this month reportedly involved pupils watching parts of Vladimir Putin's interview with US media personality Tucker Carlson. 
Numerous schools posted about the quiz on Russian social media, with children as young as six or seven appearing to take part in some places. 
They described it as an "intellectual game" which helped students to understand "the stages of development of the Russian state". 
At one school, pupils from primary to senior school age were presented with different questions on the interview based on their age. Another asked children to think about their own questions they'd like to put to the Russian president. 
Mr Carlson was the first Western journalist to interview Mr Putin since Russia invaded Ukraine two years ago. 
The former Fox anchor, who has shown support for Mr Putin in the past, claimed he was interviewing the Russian leader in order to "inform Americans". 
Mr Putin later mocked Mr Carlson for his lack of "sharp questions". 
17:18:01 
Ukrainian shell supplies at 'humiliating' level, Zelenskyy says 
Ukrainian troops have a "humiliating" number of shells available in the war against Russia and the military urgently needs more air defences, Volodymyr Zelenskyy has told European leaders. 
In a video address to a summit of leaders in Brussels, Mr Zelenskyy also urged EU countries to use frozen Russian assets to arm Ukraine. 
Both the profits and the assets themselves should be used, he said. 
17:01:01 
Zelenskyy pays tribute to soldiers killed in battle for Moshchun 
Volodymyr Zelenskyy has paid tribute to the soldiers killed during the battle for the village of Moshchun in Kyiv two years ago. 
The Ukrainian president took part in a ceremony today to honour the memory of the fallen defenders. 
"It was in the battles for Moshchun, and nearby – in the battles for Hostomel, for Irpin, for other towns and villages of Kyiv region – that the fate of Ukraine and the Ukrainian capital was decided," he said in a speech. 
Some of the fiercest fighting during the wider battle for Kyiv took place in Moschchun in March 2022. 
16:42:01 
Hungary congratulates Putin on election win 
Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban is the latest to send congratulations to Vladimir Putin on his landslide win in an election in which he ran virtually unopposed. 
State news agency MTI reported that Mr Orban sent his congratulations in a letter to the Russian leader and said ties between their countries were "based on mutual respect, allowing the discussion of important issues even in the current very difficult geopolitical situation". 
On Monday, Mr Putin claimed a comprehensive win and a record fifth term in office in an election where victory was never in doubt. 
He claimed the result showed the Russian people had "trust" and "hope" in him, but many Western leaders have condemned it as a "sham". 
This content is provided by , which may be using cookies and other technologies. To show you this content, we need your permission to use cookies. You can use the buttons below to amend your preferences to enable cookies or to allow those cookies just once. You can change your settings at any time via the Privacy Options. Unfortunately we have been unable to verify if you have consented to cookies. To view this content you can use the button below to allow cookies for this session only. 


You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. 
How Russia’s war in Ukraine has unfolded, month by month. 
A timeline of Russia’s full-scale invasion of Ukraine, which began one year ago. 
Russian forces began their full-scale invasion of Ukraine on Feb. 24, 2022. Since then, Western officials estimate that hundreds of thousands of people have been killed, millions of Ukrainians have fled and the country has sustained tens of billions of dollars’ worth of damage. 
Here is an overview of the war that highlights one key development for each month. 
February 2022 
Russian forces attacked the Ukrainian capital, Kyiv, and the country’s second-largest city, Kharkiv, in an attempt to overthrow President Volodymyr Zelensky’s government. Many experts expected Kyiv to fall swiftly. But after weeks of fighting, Russia pulled back, stymied by ferocious resistance. Evidence of Russian atrocities emerged in the wake of the retreat. 
March 
Attacking from the south, Russian forces took the Kherson region, including the regional capital, aiming to secure Ukraine’s coast. Moscow also sought to form a “land bridge” between the Crimean Peninsula, which it illegally seized from Ukraine in 2014, and Russian-backed breakaway republics that emerged that year in Ukraine’s eastern Donetsk and Luhansk regions, together known as Donbas. 
Far more civilians were killed in Ukraine in March than in any other month of the war, according to United Nations data. 
April 
A Russian missile strike on a train station in the eastern city of Kramatorsk killed at least 50 civilians. The attack came at the start of a Russian offensive, ordered by President Vladimir V. Putin, to seize all of Donbas. 
May 
The last Ukrainian fighters surrendered to Russian forces in Mariupol, a port city and industrial hub on the Sea of Azov, after weeks of bombardment that killed thousands of civilians. The fighting ended with a siege of the Azovstal steel plant, which had become a symbol of Ukrainian resistance. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. 


Ukraine war briefing: refineries in Russia burn as Ukrainians go after Kremlin’s lifeline 
Pressure on US House speaker to allow Ukraine aid vote; Syrskyi says ‘difficult’ on battlefield but enemy taking heavy losses. What we know on day 750 
Ukrainian drones have attacked several oil refineries in Russia, hundreds of kilometres from the frontline in regions including Ryazan, Nizhny Novgorod and Leningrad. The continuing attacks are part of a strategy to hurt Russia’s economy. 
The Ryazan oil refinery, Rosneft’s biggest refinery, was set ablaze, a regional governor said on Wednesday. It shut down two damaged primary oil refining units. Rosneft did not comment. The plant handles about 5.8% of Russia’s total refined crude, according to industry sources. 
A fire broke out at Norsi, Russia’s fourth-largest refinery, after a Ukrainian drone attack, Russian officials said on Tuesday. Its main crude distillation unit was damaged, which means that at least half of the refinery’s production is halted, according to industry sources. Norsi handles nearly 6% of Russia’s total refined crude. Before the latest drone attack, one of its two catalytic crackers had already been put out of action. 
The governor of the Leningrad region, Alexander Drozdenko, said a Ukrainian drone targeted the Kirishi refinery. It is one of the top two refineries in Russia, handling 6.4% of Russia’s capacity, according to industry sources. And the Novoshakhtinsk export oil refinery in Russia’s southern Rostov region had to suspend operations on Wednesday after a drone attack. 
Ukraine’s situation on the battlefield is “difficult” and Russian forces could be poised to strike deep into Ukrainian lines in the eastern Donetsk region, the Ukrainian commander-in-chief, Oleksandr Syrskyi, has said. Syrskyi said that on the eastern front “the enemy continues to conduct offensive actions” in the Donetsk region. “At the same time, probably due to the high level of losses, the activity of the enemy in other areas of the front decreased significantly.” The president, Volodymyr Zelenskiy, told French media on Monday that Russia’s advance had been “halted” and the situation was “much better” than three months ago. 
Russia’s advance west of recently captured Avdiivka has slowed, according to the Institute for the Study of War, although “Russian forces likely retain the capability to intensify offensive operations in the area at a moment of their choosing”. It says Russian elements that suffered heavy casualties while on the offensive between October 2023 and mid-February 2024 were being rested and replenished. These represent a “sizeable uncommitted operational reserve that the Russian command can commit to continue and intensify efforts to push west of Avdiivka … A month or more of rest will likely allow Russian forces to replenish these elements and restore their degraded combat capabilities to the low-quality levels that Russian commanders appear willing to accept.” In the thinktank’s assessment, Russia continues to hold the initiative across the entire battlefront. 
In the US, congressional Democrats have urged the Republican speaker, Mike Johnson, to “lead, follow or get out of the way” of more military support for Ukraine, Martin Pengelly writes for Guardian US. Senate Democrats and Republicans have passed a $95bn foreign aid package covering Ukraine, Taiwan and Israel, but Johnson, under the direction of Donald Trump – the Republican presidential nominee who openly favours Russia and its president, Vladimir Putin – has shown no sign of bringing the Senate package up for a vote. House Democrats have lodged discharge petitions, a mechanism by which the speaker can be either bypassed, or shamed into action by the prospect of being overruled. 
EU countries have agreed to provide €5bn for military aid to Ukraine as part of a revamp of an EU-run assistance fund. The European Peace Facility (EPF) fund operates as a cashback scheme, giving EU members refunds for sending munitions to other countries. 
The first deliveries of artillery ammunition under a Czech-led plan to boost supplies by buying shells outside Europe should reach Ukraine by June at the latest, a senior Czech official has said. Large-calibre ammunition from previous orders was already being supplied,” national security adviser Tomas Pojar said. 
At least three people were killed in overnight Russian drone and bomb attacks in Ukraine’s eastern Sumy and Donetsk regions, local officials said on Wednesday. 
European lawmakers are stepping up calls for the return of Ukrainian children who had been forcibly moved to Russia. “At least 20,000 Ukrainian children have been forcibly deported to Russia or relocated to Belarus,” said Michaela Šojdrová, a Czech centre-right member of the European parliament. 
EU lawmakers also have voted to seek limits on duty-free imports of Ukrainian grain, which were allowed in the wake of Russia’s invasion but which have drawn criticism from EU farmers. 
More on this story 
More on this story 
EU agrees in principle to give profits from frozen Russian assets to Ukraine 
Russia-Ukraine war: Moscow using ‘fear’ to rule occupied Ukraine, says UN human rights report – as it happened 
Ukraine says it could make 2m drones a year with financial help from west 
Ukraine war briefing: put all seized Russian earnings into the fight, EU leaders told 
Czech Republic to deliver thousands of extra artillery shells to Ukraine 
Ukraine hits oil and electricity facilities with drone attacks across Russia 
West condemns ‘undemocratic’ Russian election as results show Putin landslide 
Today in Focus 
Why are Indian and Nepali men ending up on the frontline in Ukraine? 
ABC defends broadcasting Russia-Ukraine war documentary after ambassador calls it ‘bowl of vomit’ 
German living standards plummeted after Russia invaded Ukraine, say economists 


Ukraine war briefing: Russian forces fending off attacks by pro-Kyiv fighters 
Battalions have crossed border into southern Kursk and Belgorod regions; Moscow believed to have jammed British defence minister’s satellite signal on aircraft. What we know on day 751 
Three pro-Ukrainian battalions made up of recruits from Russia have launched a fresh incursion into southern Russia in a cross-border raid meant to sow chaos before President Vladimir Putin’s widely expected re-election this weekend. The three armed groups of Russian exiled fighters, who operate closely with Ukraine’s military, said they had crossed the border into the southern Kursk and Belgorod regions. Russia’s national guard said on Thursday it was fighting off attacks from the pro-Ukrainian groups. 
Russia is believed to have jammed the satellite signal on an aircraft used by the British defence minister, Grant Shapps, to travel from Poland back to the UK, a government source and journalists travelling with him said on Thursday. The GPS signal was interfered with for about 30 minutes while the plane flew close to Russia’s Baltic enclave of Kaliningrad, they said. There was no danger to Shapps on the travelling aircraft, UK Defence sources said. 
Russia and Ukraine downed enemy drones and rockets overnight to Friday as polling stations opened across Russia on the first day of voting in the presidential election. Ukraine’s air force said Russia fired 27 Iranian-style drones – all of which it said it downed – as well as eight missiles at its territory overnight. Russia’s defence ministry said it intercepted five Ukrainian drones and two rockets over the Belgorod border region and the Kaluga region, south-west of Moscow. Local officials said earlier that two people were killed and 12 wounded in Ukrainian missiles strikes over the Belgorod region. 
Russia’s defence ministry claimed its troops killed 195 Ukrainian soldiers and destroyed five tanks and four armoured infantry vehicles, two days after saying it killed 234 Ukrainian troops in another border assault. The claims were not independently verified. 
Ukrainian drones attacked several oil refineries hundreds of kilometres from the frontline in Russian regions including Ryazan, Nizhny Novgorod and Leningrad. The continuing strikes are part of a strategy to cause economic damage. 
The European Union and Nato said Russia’s elections would not be free or fair because the Kremlin had crushed all opposition. The two bodies also condemned Russia’s decision to stage the vote in Russian-occupied areas of Ukraine that Moscow claims as its own territory. Ukraine’s foreign ministry called votes in the occupied areas illegal and void and urged international partners not to recognise the results. 
The chairs of foreign affairs committees in 23 parliaments from the Baltics to the US to Israel signed a statement rejecting the legitimacy of Russia’s elections in occupied Ukrainian territories. 
A total of 535 children have been killed and 1,255 injured in Russia’s war in Ukraine, the Ukrainian prosecutor general’s office said, Ukrinform reported. 
Vladimir Putin’s comments about nuclear weapons to Russian state media did not constitute a threat to use them, the Kremlin said, accusing the US of taking the remarks out of context in calling them “reckless and irresponsible”. Putin said Russia was technically ready for nuclear war and that if the US sent troops to Ukraine, it would be considered a significant escalation of the conflict. 
Putin said setting up a nuclear-powered unit in space was a priority. Russia’s space agency Roscosmos said last week that Russia and China were considering putting a nuclear power plant on the moon from 2033-35. 
Nato allies must urgently step up delivery of ammunition and weapons to Ukraine, Nato’s secretary general said. Presenting the alliance’s annual report at its headquarters in Brussels, Jens Stoltenberg said Ukrainians were not running out of courage but were running out of ammunition. He also said any attempt to hold Russian elections in occupied Ukrainian regions would be illegal. 
The Ukrainian military said Russian forces attacked Ukraine with 34 Shahed drones overnight to Friday and that 22 of them were shot down. About 150 settlements in the Chernihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv, Luhansk, Donetsk, Zaporizhzhia, Dnipropetrovsk, Kherson and Mykolaiv regions came under Russian artillery fire, it said. Authorities in Kharkiv and Sumy regions said infrastructure had been targeted. 
EU leaders are to take a significant step towards confiscating €27bn in profit generated by Russian state assets frozen in Europe to help fund the war effort in Ukraine. European Commission officials are poised to put forward what they believe is a legally robust proposal to be considered by member states, possibly before a meeting of prime ministers in Brussels next Thursday. Ukraine’s defence ministry, meanwhile, thanked the EU for agreeing on €5bn for military aid to Kyiv. 
The Ukrainian army shelled a critical infrastructure facility at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, the facility’s Russian-controlled management alleged. An explosive device was dropped near a fence where diesel fuel tanks were located, it claimed, saying: “Such attacks are unacceptable.” 
Germany’s parliament has rejected a call by the opposition for the government to send Taurus long-range cruise missiles to Ukraine, a day after the chancellor, Olaf Scholz, defended his refusal to supply the weapons. 
German arms manufacturer Rheinmetall said it planned to set up at least four factories in Ukraine, as it targets a record €10bn ($10.9bn) in sales this year. The company said the factories in Ukraine – which has been suffering from ammunition shortages as Moscow makes battlefield gains – would be for producing shells, military vehicles, gunpowder and anti-aircraft weapons. 


ShareShare Article via FacebookShare Article via TwitterShare Article via LinkedInShare Article via Email 
Ukraine war updates: Oil prices rise after drone attacks on Russian refineries; Russia ready for nuclear war, Putin says 
This was CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine. 
Oil prices rose around 2% Wednesday after production disruptions at several major oil refineries in Russia, following Ukrainian drone attacks. 
Two primary oil refining units were shut down in Rosneft's biggest oil refinery in Ryazan on Wednesday after a fire caused by a drone attack, two sources familiar with the situation told Reuters. Rosneft has not commented on the incident. 
Meanwhile, operations at the Novoshakhtinsky oil products plant in the Rostov region were stopped after drones shot down by Russian air defenses fell on the facility, regional Governor Vasily Golubev said. Production was halted at another major refinery — Lukoil's NORSI facility in the Nizhny Novgorod region —on Tuesday after a drone attack caused a fire. 
A Ukrainian security source told NBC that the refineries, among the top five largest plants in Russia, were targeted in a bid to damage Russia's oil-exporting economy. 
An employee walks across snow past illuminated petroleum cracking towers at the Lukoil-Nizhegorodnefteorgsintez oil refinery, operated by OAO Lukoil, in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. 
Bloomberg | Bloomberg | Getty Images 
In other news, Putin said Russia is technically ready for a nuclear war — and would be ready to conduct nuclear tests if the U.S. did so. 
"From a military-technical point of view, we are, of course, ready ... [and] constantly in a state of combat readiness," Putin said in an interview with news channel Rossiya-1 and news agency RIA Novosti Tuesday. 
Wed, Mar 13 20241:09 PM EDT 
EU ambassadors agree to reform European Peace Facility, boosting Ukraine aid 
European Union ambassadors agreed in principle on Wednesday to reform the European Peace Facility fund in order to supply aid worth 5 billion euros ($5.48 billion) to Ukraine this year, the Belgian presidency of the EU said in a post on social media platform X. 
"The [EU] remains determined to provide lasting support to [Ukraine] & ensure that the country gets the military equipment it needs to defend itself," the post said. 
The European Peace Facility is a mechanism set up in 2021 aiming to support the EU's ability to create peace, security and prevent conflict, which member states pay into every year based on the agreed budget. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Wed, Mar 13 202412:30 PM EDT 
Russia says it isn't planning to join Ukraine peace conference in Switzerland 
Russia does not intend to join a high-level peace conference that aims to bring an end to the war in Ukraine, even if it is formally invited, a spokesperson for the Russia Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
Switzerland said earlier this year that it would aim to host a peace conference in the coming months. 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova cited a number of reasons for Russia not participating in the event, including that the conference will discuss Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's 10-point peace formula. 
Ultimatums to Russia are a key part of the plan and are unacceptable, she added. 
"Secondly, Switzerland can hardly serve as a platform for various peacekeeping efforts, since this assumes a neutral status, which Bern has lost," the statement said, according to a Google translation. 
Zakharova said previous attempts by the West to broker peace, such as the so-called Minsk agreements, had shown its inability to negotiate. 
Russia would in principle be open to negotiations, Zakharova said, but only if Russian interests are taken into account and military aid to Ukraine was halted, among other conditions. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Wed, Mar 13 202411:06 AM EDT 
Operations of Novoshakhtinsk oil refinery in Russia's Rostov region resume after drone attack, say sources 
The operations of the Novoshakhtinsk oil refinery in Russia's southern Rostov region resumed after a drone attack, two sources told Reuters on Wednesday. 
The operations of the refinery were stopped after downed drones fell on the site on Wednesday, regional governor Vasily Golubev said on the Telegram messaging app. 
There were no casualties, he said, and the damage was being assessed. 
— Reuters 
Wed, Mar 13 20249:56 AM EDT 
War, peace and reality: 5 things Putin talked about with the Russian media today 
Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures during a meeting with participants of the International Youth Festival, March 6, 2024 in Sirius territory, Sochi, Russia. Putin is visiting the Stavropolsky Krai and Krasnodar Krai regions in the southern part of the country ahead of the presidential elections scheduled March 15-17. 
Contributor | Getty Images News | Getty Images 
Russian President Vladimir Putin has given a wide-ranging interview to the Russian press a few days ahead of the presidential election on March 15-17. 
Speaking to the pro-Kremlin media, Putin opined on the war in Ukraine, the treachery of the West (as Russia sees it) and the prospect of peace talks, which he said had to be based on "reality" and not some drug-induced dream. 
Russian oil refineries put out of action after Ukrainian drone attacks 
Several major oil refineries in Russia appear to be out of action following Ukrainian drone attacks. 
Two primary oil refining units were shut down in Rosneft's Ryazan oil refinery on Wednesday after a fire caused by a drone attack, two sources familiar with the situation told Reuters. Rosneft has not commented on the incident. 
Meanwhile, operations at the Novoshakhtinsky oil products plant in the Rostov region were stopped after drones shot down by Russian air defenses fell on the facility, regional Governor Vasily Golubev said on Telegram. No one was injured in the incident. 
Production was also halted at Lukoil's NORSI refinery in the Nizhny Novgorod region on Tuesday after a drone attack caused a fire. 
A red dawn illuminates cracking towers at the Lukoil-Nizhegorodnefteorgsintez (NORSI) oil refinery, operated by OAO Lukoil, in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. 
Bloomberg | Bloomberg | Getty Images 
Ukraine's security service on Wednesday claimed responsibility for the drone attacks on oil refineries in Ryazan, Kstovo in the Nizhny Novgorod region and Kirishy, in the Leningrad region, saying the latest attacks were a continuation of a series of special operations against Russian oil facilities. 
"We are systematically implementing a detailed strategy to reduce the economic potential of the Russian Federation," a Ukrainian security source, who asked for anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly about operations, told NBC News. 
"Our task is to deprive the enemy of resources and reduce the flow of oil money and fuel, which the Russian Federation directs directly to the war, to the murders of our citizens," the source added. 
Oil prices were around 2% higher Wednesday against the backdrop of refinery attacks and potential disruption to oil supplies from major producer, Russia. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20248:34 AM EDT 
Russia says U.S. plans to attack its electronic system for presidential election 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Wednesday that the United States planned to stage cyberattacks on Russia's electronic voting system during its presidential election from March 15-17. 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova attends Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov's annual end-of-year press conference in Moscow on January 18, 2024. 
Alexander Nemenov | AFP | Getty Images 
Zakharova also said Washington had tasked U.S. non-governmental organisations with undermining the election by decreasing voter turnout. Her comments echoed similar accusations by Russia's foreign intelligence service made this week. 
— Reuters 
Wed, Mar 13 20248:32 AM EDT 
Russian regions face sharp uptick in Ukrainian drone, missile attacks 
M142 HIMARS launches a rocket on Russian position on December 29, 2023 in Unspecified, Ukraine. M142 HIMARS proved to be a highly effective weapon, striking targets both on the front line and deep in the Russian rear. 
Serhii Mykhalchuk | Global Images Ukraine | Getty Images 
Russia's defense ministry claimed on Wednesday that Russian air defense systems had destroyed numerous drones and missiles fired at its territory by Ukraine over the past 24 hours. 
"During the [past] day, air defense systems shot down 136 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles, four HIMARS MLRS missiles made in the United States, six Grad MLRS missiles, as well as three Hammer guided aerial bombs made in France," the ministry said on Telegram. 
CNBC was unable to verify the information in the post and Ukraine has not commented on the apparent increase in attacks. Russian media agencies have published multiple reports over the last few days of attempted drone and missile attacks against Russian regions, particularly those along the border with Ukraine, as well as damage to energy infrastructure, with oil refineries being targeted. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20247:45 AM EDT 
'No one is afraid of you,' Lithuania's president tells Putin after attack on Navalny aide 
Leonid Volkov, chief of staff for Alexei Navalny and political director of Navalny's team, attends a rally on June 4, 2023 in Vilnius, Lithuania. 
Oleg Nikishin | Getty Images 
An attack on a close aide of the late Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, was pre-planned and tied in with other provocations against Lithuania, President Gitanas Nauseda said on Wednesday. 
Leonid Volkov, the former chief of staff for Navalny, who died in a Russian penal colony in February, was attacked with a hammer in the Lithuanian capital of Vilnius on Tuesday. The assault provoked outrage in EU member Lithuania, where an extensive investigation is taking place into the incident. 
Lithuanian counter-intelligence stated Wednesday that it's likely the attack was organized and executed by Russia. Moscow has not publicly commented on the attack. 
Picture taken on March 13, 2024 shows a barrier tape of the police fixed at the scene where Leonid Volkov, a close ally of late Russian opposition leader Alexei Navalny, was attacked outside his home in Vilnius, Lithuania, on the evening of Tuesday, March 12, 2024. 
Petras Malukas | Afp | Getty Images 
Speaking to the press, Nauseda addressed Russian President Vladimir Putin directly, stating: "I can only say one thing to Putin — nobody is afraid of you here," Nauseda said in comments reported by Reuters. 
Navalny's former spokesperson Kira Yarmysh said on social media platform X Tuesday that "Volkov has just been attacked outside his house. Someone broke a car window and sprayed tear gas in his eyes, after which the attacker started hitting Leonid with a hammer," she said. 
Volkov was taken to hospital but was later discharged. He posted a video message on social media site Telegram saying that the assailant had hit him 15 times, breaking his arm and bruising his leg, according to comments translated by Sky News. Volkov said his wounds would heal and he would not give up his work. 
Lithuania's chief of police said Wednesday that a huge amount of "analytical and physical" resources were being devoted to the investigation into the attack, Reuters reported. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20245:13 AM EDT 
Ukraine's security service behind drone attacks on three Russian oil refineries 
Ukraine's Security Service on Wednesday claimed responsibility for drone attacks on three oil refineries in Russia. 
Oil refineries in Ryazan, Kstovo in the Nizhny Novgorod region and Kirishy, in the Leningrad region, were all deliberately targeted, according to a Ukrainian security source who asked for anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly about operations. 
The source confirmed to NBC that the latest attacks are a continuation of a series of special operations against Russian oil refineries which were previously launched by the security service. 
"We are systematically implementing a detailed strategy to reduce the economic potential of the Russian Federation. Our task is to deprive the enemy of resources and reduce the flow of oil money and fuel, which the Russian Federation directs directly to the war, to the murders of our citizens," the source added. 
A worker at the Lukoil company-owned Imilorskoye oilfield in Kogalym, Russia, January 25, 2016 
Sergei Karpukhin | Reuters 
The security source said footage on social media proved that the consequences of the attacks were significant amid reports of fires at the facilities. The refineries attacked today are among the top five largest plants in the Russian Federation, the source noted. 
In addition, the SBU, together with other representatives of the defense forces, attacked the air base of the Russian Air Force in Buturlinivka and the military airfield in Voronezh with drones. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20244:47 AM EDT 
Ukrainian drone attacks against Russia continue, officials say 
Ukrainian drone attacks against Russian regions are continuing Wednesday, with Russian officials reporting attacks on an oil refinery in Ryazan and apartment buildings in Belgorod. 
Russia's Ministry of Defense said air defense systems shot down 65 drones (widely described as UAVs, or unmanned aerial vehicles) over Russian territory. 
"During the past night and the morning of March 13, attempts by the Kyiv regime to carry out terrorist attacks using aircraft-type UAVs against targets on the territory of the Russian Federation were stopped," the ministry said on Telegram on Wednesday. 
"In total, air defense forces intercepted and destroyed 65 drones: 29 in the Voronezh region, 11 in the Belgorod region, eight each in the Bryansk and Kursk regions, and one each in the Leningrad and Ryazan regions," the ministry added. 
Three people were injured during an attack by Ukrainian drones on an oil refinery in Ryazan and the facility had been set on fire, the emergency services told news agency RIA Novosti. 
Pavel Malkov, the governor of Ryazan, said the refinery had been attacked by a drone. He posted on Telegram Wednesday morning that the fire at the Ryazan oil refinery "has been extinguished" and that "people's lives are not in danger," although he confirmed that several people were injured. 
A red dawn illuminates cracking towers at the Lukoil-Nizhegorodnefteorgsintez (NORSI) oil refinery, operated by OAO Lukoil, in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. 
Bloomberg | Bloomberg | Getty Images 
Meanwhile, Belgorod Mayor Valentin Demidov said on Telegram that windows in nine apartments in the city were damaged because of an attack by the Ukrainian armed forces, but no casualties were reported. 
CNBC was unable to immediately verify the reports and Ukraine rarely comments on attacks against Russian territory. There has been a notable increase in drone attacks against Russian regions, particularly those on the border with Ukraine, and energy infrastructure, this week. On Tuesday, a drone attack inflicted serious damage on a major Lukoil oil refinery in Nizhny Novgorod, with the facility set on fire in the strike. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20243:38 AM EDT 
Russia is technically ready for nuclear war, Putin says 
Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures during a meeting with participants of the International Youth Festival, March 6, 2024 in Sirius territory, Sochi, Russia. Putin is visiting the Stavropolsky Krai and Krasnodar Krai regions in the southern part of the country ahead of the presidential elections scheduled March 15-17. 
Contributor | Getty Images News | Getty Images 
Russian President Vladimir Putin said Russia is technically ready for a nuclear war but cautioned that such an eventuality is not a near-term prospect. 
"From a military-technical point of view, we are, of course, ready. They are constantly with us, constantly in a state of combat readiness," Putin said in an interview with news channel Rossiya-1 and news agency RIA Novosti published Tuesday, having been asked whether Russia is ready for nuclear war. 
Putin said Ukraine's Western allies had insisted they would not send ground troops into Ukraine, understanding that this would be seen as interventionist and could lead to a direct conflict between NATO and Russia. 
Describing U.S. President Joe Biden as a "representative of the traditional political school," Putin said that "besides Biden and others, there are enough specialists in the field of Russian-American relations and in the field of strategic restraint" that could prevent a nuclear conflict from taking place. 
"Therefore, I don't think everything is rushing to it [toward a nuclear war]," Putin said in comments translated by Google. 
Putin said Russia could resort to using nuclear weapons if the state was in danger, noting that "Weapons exist in order to be used. We have our own principles. What they say: that we are ready to use weapons, including any weapons, including the one you mentioned, if we are talking about the existence of Russian state, damaging our sovereignty and independence." 
He said Russia would be ready to conduct nuclear tests if the U.S. did so, stating, "If they conduct such tests ... I don't exclude that we can do the same." 
The interview with Putin comes days before the March 15-17 presidential election in Russia that Putin is widely expected to win, given the lack of non-systemic opposition figures in Russia. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Tue, Mar 12 202411:50 AM EDT 
Denmark announces new military aid for Ukraine 
Danish Defence Minister Troels Lund Poulsen speaks during a joint press conference with the Ukrainian defence minister in Odessa, Ukraine April 11, 2023, amid Russia's attack on Ukraine. 
Bo Amstrup | AFP | Getty Images 
Denmark on Tuesday announced a new aid package for Ukraine which covers ammunition and other military support and is worth around 2.3 billion Danish krone ($336.6 million). 
"Artillery and mortar systems are in great demand by Ukraine. With this donation package, we are delivering a substantial contribution to the Ukrainian freedom struggle in the form of both additional CAESAR artillery systems and accompanying ammunition," Danish Defence Minister Troels Lund Poulsen said in a statement, according to a Google Translation. 
The aid package will be financed in collaboration with allies, the statement said. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Tue, Mar 12 202410:07 AM EDT 
Ukrainian drone crashes into Belgorod city hall 
A view shows the damaged Belgorod city hall hit by a drone attack in Belgorod on March 12, 2024. 
Stringer | Afp | Getty Images 
A Ukrainian drone has reportedly crashed into a city hall building in the Russian city of Belgorod. Two people were injured in the incident, Belgorod's Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov wrote on Telegram Tuesday. 
"In Belgorod, an enemy UAV [unmanned aerial vehicle] crashed into the city administration building. There are two casualties: one woman received shrapnel wounds, the second received a concussion," he said. 
"As a result of the explosion, windows in the building were shattered and [the] facade damaged. All emergency services are on site," he said, according to a NBC translation of his comments. CNBC was unable to immediately verify the information. 
A view shows the damaged Belgorod city hall hit by a drone attack in Belgorod on March 12, 2024. 
Stringer | Afp | Getty Images 
Russia said earlier Tuesday that Ukraine had launched drones and missiles against seven Russian regions, including the border region Belgorod, with energy infrastructure among the main targets. It said its air defenses had shot down 25 drones. Ukraine has not commented on the attacks. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Tue, Mar 12 20249:26 AM EDT 
Ukraine knocks out Russian refinery in major attack 
Ukraine pounded targets in Russia on Tuesday with dozens of drones and rockets in an attack that inflicted serious damage on a major oil refinery and sought to pierce the land borders of the world's biggest nuclear power with armed proxies. 
Russia and Ukraine have both used drones to strike critical infrastructure, military installations and troop concentrations in their more than two-year war, with Kyiv hitting Russian refineries and energy facilities in recent months. 
Russia said Ukrainian proxies had sought to cross the Russian border in at least seven attacks that Russian forces had repelled. The Russian-speaking Ukrainian proxies said they had breached the border, a claim denied by Russia. 
A red dawn illuminates cracking towers at the Lukoil-Nizhegorodnefteorgsintez (NORSI) oil refinery, operated by OAO Lukoil, in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. 
Bloomberg | Bloomberg | Getty Images 
In one of the biggest Ukrainian drone attacks on Russia to date, Moscow said it downed 25 Ukrainian drones over regions including Moscow, Leningrad, Belgorod, Kursk, Bryansk, Tula and Oryol. Waves of drone attacks continued through the day, the defence ministry said. 
Russian officials reported attacks on energy facilities, including a fire at Lukoil's NORSI refinery and a drone destroyed on the outskirts of the town of Kirishi, home to Russia's second largest oil refinery. 
Gleb Nikitin, governor of the Nizhny Novgorod region, posted a picture of a fire truck beside the NORSI refinery and said emergency services were working to put out a blaze there. 
Striking Russian oil facilities is a problem for President Vladimir Putin as he faces off against the West over Ukraine, with domestic gasoline prices sensitive ahead of a March 15-17 presidential election. 
— Reuters 
Tue, Mar 12 20248:07 AM EDT 
Russia claims to have captured another Donetsk village 
Katerina Evgenievna, 76, sits in her home on February 10, 2022 in Nevelske, Ukraine. 
Gaelle Girbes | Getty Images 
Russian armed forces claim to have taken control of the village of Nevelske in the eastern Ukrainian region of Donetsk. 
Russia's Ministry of Defense said in a statement that its troops now occupied "more advantageous lines and positions" in the area following the village's capture, the latest in a series of military gains following the capture of industrial city Avdiivka last month. 
The ministry said Russian armed forces had defeated Ukrainian formations in the areas of Novomykhailivka in Donetsk and Bilohorivka in Luhansk. It claimed Ukraine had lost up to 350 soldiers, two tanks, four cars and a Gvozdika self-propelled artillery unit in one day of combat. 
Ukraine has not commented on, or confirmed, Russia's claim. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Tue, Mar 12 20246:19 AM EDT 
Russian says it thwarted armed incursion by Ukrainian army, 'sabotage' groups 
Russia's Defense Ministry said its armed forces and border units have thwarted an attempted incursion by Ukrainian forces — as well as "Ukrainian sabotage and reconnaissance groups" — into the border regions of Kursk and Belgorod on Tuesday. 
"This morning, units of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation, together with units of the border service of the FSB of Russia, thwarted an attempt by the Kiev regime to infiltrate the border territory of the Russian Federation in the Belgorod and Kursk regions," the ministry said in a statement, according to an NBC News translation. 
Members of Russian Volunteer Corps," a paramilitary group made up of Russian citizens based in Ukraine, are seen near the Russian border in northern Ukraine on May 24, 2023. 
Muhammed Enes Yildirim | Anadolu Agency | Getty Images 
"Around 3 a.m. Moscow time, after intense shelling of civilian targets, Ukrainian terrorist formations, supported by tanks and armored combat vehicles, attempted to simultaneously invade the territory of the Russian Federation in three directions in the areas of the settlements of Odnorobovka, Nekhoteevka and Spodaryushino, Belgorod region," the statement said. 
It said all the attacks, which it said were carried out by the Ukrainian armed forces, "were repelled by the selfless actions of Russian military personnel. The enemy was struck by aviation, missile forces and artillery," the ministry said. 
It claimed Ukraine had suffered "significant" losses in the attack and had been driven back and that the border was secure. 
"In the border area on the Ukrainian side, up to 60 Ukrainian terrorists were killed in the Odnorobovka area, three tanks and an armored personnel carrier were destroyed in the Nekhoteevka area, and two tanks were destroyed in the Spodaryushino area," it said. 
The statement comes after three anti-Kremlin armed groups said they had launched an incursion across Russia's western border, without providing further detail. 
Russia's Defense Ministry said Tuesday that, in addition, "four attacks by Ukrainian sabotage and reconnaissance groups that tried to cross over into the border territory near the village of Tyotkino, Kursk region, were repelled." 
"Having suffered significant losses, the enemy was driven back," the ministry claimed. 


ShareShare Article via FacebookShare Article via TwitterShare Article via LinkedInShare Article via Email 
Ukraine war updates: U.S. brushes off Putin's 'nuclear war' threat; Ukraine says Russian election in occupied regions 'illegal' 
This was CNBC's live blog tracking developments on the war in Ukraine. 
Ukraine's foreign ministry on Thursday said that Russian attempts to hold elections in occupied territories or to force regional residents to head to the polls would be "illegal" — a sentiment echoed by NATO chief Jens Stoltenberg in a separate briefing, Reuters reports. 
Russia's presidential election is slated to take place over March 15-17. 
Meanwhile, two people were killed and several were injured in Ukrainian attacks on the Russian region of Belgorod, its governor said. CNBC could not independently verify the details. 
A view of the site after Ukrainian shelling that damaged buildings and vehicles in Belgorod, Russia on March 14, 2024. 
Emil Leegunov | Anadolu | Getty Images 
Earlier, the White House said it had no reason to adjust the U.S.' "nuclear posture" after comments by Russian President Vladimir Putin Wednesday in which he said his country was "technically" ready for nuclear war. 
In other news, Russian-installed officials at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine accused Ukraine's armed forces of shelling critical infrastructure at the plant on Thursday. 
Russia has occupied the plant since March 2022, with the nuclear facility being a focal point of tensions and skirmishes between Ukrainian and Russian forces. CNBC was unable to verify the latest claims. 
Thu, Mar 14 202412:23 PM EDT 
Allies warning Hungary of increasingly close relationship with Russia, U.S. ambassador says 
Russian President Vladimir Putin meeting Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orban at the third Belt and Road forum in Beijing. 
Grigory Sysoyev | Afp | Getty Images 
Hungary's allies are cautioning the country about its relationship with Russia, David Pressman, the U.S. ambassador to Hungary said Thursday. 
"Hungary's allies are warning Hungary of the dangers of its close and expanding relationship with Russia," he said in a speech marking the 25th anniversary of Hungary's accession to NATO. 
As Hungary's foreign minister and prime minister are continuing to engage with Russia, it appears fostering a close relationship with the country is part of Hungary's policy, Pressman said. If this is true, the allies would need to decide how to protect their security interests, he noted. 
Pressman also criticized Hungary's position on the war in Ukraine. 
"Hungary could stand with Ukraine, alongside all of its NATO Allies, to demand real peace, true peace, which can only be based in freedom rather than standing beside Russia and calling for surrender and subjugation," he said. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 202411:10 AM EDT 
Russia thought to have interfered with signal of U.K. defense minister's plane, sources say 
Russia is thought to have interfered with the satellite signal of an airplane carrying U.K. Defense Minister Grant Shapps on Thursday, Reuters reported citing multiple sources. 
The aircraft reportedly could not access GPS and had to use alternative methods to assess its location, and mobile phones were unable to connect to the internet when the plane was flying near Russian city Kaliningrad on the Baltic Sea. The outage lasted for about thirty minutes, sources said. 
Shapps was traveling back to the U.K. from Poland at the time. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 20249:56 AM EDT 
Norway says it will reach 2% defense spending goal from NATO this year 
Norway will hit NATO's goal of spending 2% of a country's gross domestic product on defense this year, its Prime Minister Jonas Gahr Stoere said in a statement on Thursday. 
"The security policy situation is serious. We have to live with a more dangerous and unpredictable Russia, probably for a long time," he said according to a Google translation. 
Countries around Norway have been amping up their defense spending, and it is following suit, Stoere said. The country previously said its target was to reach the NATO defense spending goal by 2026. 
"We must take responsibility for our own security, and we must help take responsibility for European security," Stoere said. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 20249:37 AM EDT 
Ukraine lacks ammunition, not courage, NATO secretary-general says 
NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg holds a press conference at NATO headquarters during the first of two days of defence ministers' meetings on February 14, 2024 in Brussels, Belgium. 
Omar Havana | Getty Images 
NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg once more urged allies to show "political will" and provide military support to Ukraine. 
"We have the capacity to give Ukraine what it needs. Now we need to show the political will to do so," he said Thursday during a press briefing after the launch of the NATO Annual Report for 2023. "The Ukrainians are not running out of courage. They are running out of ammunition." 
Stoltenberg further called on allied countries to "step up," echoing previous messaging that NATO members should meet their commitments to route 2% of their gross domestic products toward defense. A statement introducing the coalition's latest annual report said two-thirds of NATO allies are expected to meet or exceed this defense spending target in 2024. 
Individual country contributions were thrown into the spotlight in February when former U.S. president and presidential Republican nominee Donald Trump said he would not protect NATO nations from Russian hostilities if they lag on their membership contributions. 
"We have the capacity, we have the economies to be able to provide Ukraine what they need," Stoltenberg said Thursday. "This is a question of political will. To take those decisions and to prioritize support for Ukraine. And therefore we need the decision to invest more in the defense industry." 
— Ruxandra Iordache 
Thu, Mar 14 20249:22 AM EDT 
Two killed by Ukrainian strikes on Russia's Belgorod region, governor says 
Two people were killed and several others were injured following Ukrainian strikes in the western Russian region of Belgorod on Thursday, local Governor Vyacheslav Gladkov said. 
In several Telegram posts, Gladkov said that multiple towns in the region were hit by Ukraine, and that cars and houses were damaged or destroyed. 
Russian air defense systems shot down as many as ten Ukrainian missiles, he noted. 
CNBC could not confirm developments on the ground. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 20248:27 AM EDT 
227 U.S. citizens banned from entering Russia by foreign ministry 
Russian foreign minister Sergey Lavrov listens during a United Nations Security Council meeting on Ukraine, at UN headquarters in New York City on January 22, 2024. 
Charly Triballeau | AFP | Getty Images 
Russia's foreign ministry on Thursday announced that it was banning a further 227 U.S. citizens from entering the country in a Google-translated statement. 
The figure included people "involved in the development, implementation and justification of the Russophobic course of the current US Administration" and "those directly involved in anti-Russian actions," the Russian foreign ministry said. 
The list features a large number of academics, business representatives, especially from technology and military equipment companies, as well as political figures such as senior advisors, deputy ministers, government spokespeople and a former U.S. ambassador to Russia. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 20248:09 AM EDT 
Ukraine, NATO chief say holding Russian elections on occupied territory would be "illegal" 
Ukrainian Minister for Foreign Affairs Dmytro Kuleba (L) and Nato Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg (R) give a press conference following their meeting at Nato Headquarters in Brussels, on November 29, 2023, on the sidelines of a Nato Foreign ministers meeting. 
Simon Wohlfahrt | Afp | Getty Images 
Ukraine's foreign ministry on Thursday said it would be illegal for Russia to hold elections in occupied territories of Ukraine, and that the votes would not have any legal consequences. 
"Forcing millions of Ukrainian citizens who live in temporarily occupied territories or who have been forcibly transferred to Russian Federation territory to participate in the so-called "elections" is equally illegal," a ministry statement said. 
Russia's attempt to hold elections in occupied regions showed the country's "flagrant disregard" for international laws and conventions, the foreign ministry added. 
People visit a mobile polling station during the early voting in Russia’s presidential election, in the course of Russia-Ukraine conflict in Donetsk, Russian-controlled Ukraine, March 10, 2024. 
Alexander Ermochenko | Reuters 
"We urge Ukrainian citizens who live in the temporarily occupied territories of Ukraine or are forced to stay in the territory of the Russian Federation not to participate in the 'pseudo-elections' of the Russian President," it said. 
Separately, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg told reporters that any efforts to organize elections in Ukraine's occupied regions would be illegal, Reuters reported. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 20247:47 AM EDT 
Putin ally proposes Russian six-point peace plan which would include Ukraine's surrender 
Russia's Deputy head of the Security Council Dmitry Medvedev, accompanied by Deputy Defence Minister Nikolay Pankov, visits the Prudboi military training ground in Volgograd region, Russia June 1, 2023. 
Yekaterina Shtukina | Sputnik | Reuters 
Deputy chairman of the Russian Security Council, Dmitry Medvedev, on Thursday shared a proposed peace plan from a Russian perspective, which among other points calls for Ukraine to surrender. 
The plan is a response to the 10-point peace formula proposed by Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy, which is being discussed by allies as a potential basis for peace negotiations. 
"Everyone understands perfectly well, including the out-of-touch Western liars, that even in much simpler situations during war, peace can be achieved either with the mutual will of the parties on the basis of a reasonable compromise, or through the surrender of one of the parties to the conflict," Medvedev wrote in a Telegram post, according to a Google translation. 
Ukraine was not willing to negotiate, he added, before suggesting an alternative six-point plan. Ukraine should recognize its defeat and commit to "complete and unconditional surrender," as well as de-militarize. 
Medvedev also called for the dissolution of Ukrainian authorities and the election of a provisional parliament, which should recognize "that its entire territory is the territory of the Russian Federation," and pass a reunification act, before dissolving again. 
The United Nations and international community should condemn the current Ukrainian government and ultimately recognize the reunification, he added. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Thu, Mar 14 20245:55 AM EDT 
Kremlin defends Putin's nuclear war comments, saying there's no threat 
In this pool photograph distributed by Russian state agency Sputnik, Russia's President Vladimir Putin gives an interview to US talk show host Tucker Carlson at the Kremlin in Moscow on February 6, 2024. 
Gavriil Grigorov | AFP | Getty Images 
The Kremlin defended comments made by Russian President Vladimir Putin on Wednesday in which he said Russia was "technically" ready for a nuclear war, and was ready to conduct nuclear tests if the U.S. did so, saying the remarks did not constitute a threat to use them. 
The remarks, published in pro-Kremlin media Wednesday, echoed previous comments Putin has made about Russia's nuclear arsenal, saying Russia would only consider using them if the country's existence was under threat. The White House responded that it saw no reason to adjust its own "nuclear posture" after the comments. 
Kremlin Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov said Thursday that Putin was just answering questions from Russian journalist Dmitry Kiselev, and that the comments had been distorted by the Western media. 
"Putin did not make any threats about the use of nuclear weapons in this interview. He answered, firstly, the journalist's questions, and these were precisely the journalist's questions, and not some special statements," Peskov said, according to comments published by news agency RIA Novosti and translated by Google. 
Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov attends Russian President Vladimir Putin's annual press conference in Moscow, Russia December 14, 2023. 
Alexander Zemlianichenko | Reuters 
"And the president was just talking about the reasons that could make the use of nuclear weapons inevitable. These are the reasons that are indicated in our relevant documents, which are well known throughout the world," he added. 
"This is a deliberate distortion of the context and a reluctance to listen to President Putin. Again, there is nothing new in this. This is what we are very focused on [and have] observed for a long time and especially in the last two years," Peskov said. Moscow has repeatedly criticized what it sees as a "Russophobic'" Western media since it invaded Ukraine two years ago. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Thu, Mar 14 20244:53 AM EDT 
Russia hits back at Ukraine with 'massive' drone, missiles strike overnight 
Russia has launched "massive" drone and artillery strikes against Ukraine overnight, Ukrainian officials said, with civilian infrastructure targeted in the northeast, east and south of the country. 
The strikes come after a sharp uptick in Ukrainian drone and missile attacks against Russian regions over the last few days, with a number of major Russian oil refineries targeted and disrupting production. 
Oleh Synehubov, the governor of the eastern border region of Kharkiv, said on Telegram on Thursday morning that Russia had carried out "massive" attack using drones, or UAVs (unmanned aerial vehicles), on television infrastructure in the region, with restoration work ongoing. 
"About 15 settlements of the Kharkiv region were hit by enemy artillery and mortar attacks," Synehubov said. There appeared to be no casualties from the attacks, he said, according to a Google translation. 
The aftermath of a drone attack on a five-story residential building in Sumy, northeastern Ukraine, on March 13, 2023. 
Nurphoto | Nurphoto | Getty Images 
In the neighboring Sumy region, the military administration said civilian infrastructure had been targeted in the cities of Sumy, Shostka, Trostyanets, and Bilopillya. Missile strikes were also carried out on Shostka and Trostyanets. 
All in all, around 150 settlements in the Chernihiv, Sumy, Kharkiv, Luhansk, Donetsk, Zaporizhia, Dnipropetrovsk, Kherson and Mykolaiv regions had come under Russian artillery fire, Ukraine's military said in its latest update on Thursday morning. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Thu, Mar 14 20244:09 AM EDT 
U.S. sees no sign Russia is ready to use nuclear weapons 
The White House said it had no reason to adjust the U.S.' "nuclear posture" after comments by Russian President Vladimir Putin Wednesday in which he said Russia was "technically" ready for nuclear war. 
Asked to respond to the remarks, White House spokeswoman Karin Jean-Pierre said Wednesday that the Biden administration saw no need to adjust its assessment of the nuclear threat posed by Moscow. 
"We have not seen any reasons to adjust our own nuclear posture ... nor any indication that Russia is preparing to use a nuclear weapon in Ukraine," she told reporters. 
Russian President Vladimir Putin gestures during his meeting with drivers and road industry representatives, on February 22, 2024 in Kazan, Russia. 
Contributor | Getty Images 
In an interview published by pro-Kremlin media Wednesday, Putin said, "from a military-technical point of view, we are, of course, ready ... [and] constantly in a state of combat readiness," for nuclear war. 
Russia-controlled Zaporizhzhia nuclear plant shelled by Ukraine, officials claim 
Russian-installed officials at the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant (ZNPP) accused Ukraine's armed forces of shelling critical infrastructure at the plant on Thursday. 
On Thursday, officials at the site in southern Ukraine said the plant had been shelled and that an explosive device was dropped into an area where tanks with diesel fuel were located, adding that the action could have had "dire consequences." 
Russia has occupied the ZNPP since March 2022, early on in the invasion of Ukraine. The nuclear facility has been a focal point of tensions and skirmishes between Ukrainian and Russian forces ever since, with both accusing each other of endangering the safety of the plant and risking a nuclear disaster. 
A view of the Russian-controlled Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant in southern Ukraine on June 15, 2023. 
Olga Maltseva | Afp | Getty Images 
The International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), which has been monitoring the site during the war, was notified of the incident, the Telegram post added. 
CNBC was unable to immediately verify the claims made in the post and Ukraine has not commented on the claims. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20248:34 AM EDT 
Russia says U.S. plans to attack its electronic system for presidential election 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Wednesday that the United States planned to stage cyberattacks on Russia's electronic voting system during its presidential election from March 15-17. 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova attends Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov's annual end-of-year press conference in Moscow on January 18, 2024. 
Alexander Nemenov | AFP | Getty Images 
Zakharova also said Washington had tasked U.S. non-governmental organisations with undermining the election by decreasing voter turnout. Her comments echoed similar accusations by Russia's foreign intelligence service made this week. 
— Reuters 
Wed, Mar 13 20241:09 PM EDT 
EU ambassadors agree to reform European Peace Facility, boosting Ukraine aid 
European Union ambassadors agreed in principle on Wednesday to reform the European Peace Facility fund in order to supply aid worth 5 billion euros ($5.48 billion) to Ukraine this year, the Belgian presidency of the EU said in a post on social media platform X. 
"The [EU] remains determined to provide lasting support to [Ukraine] & ensure that the country gets the military equipment it needs to defend itself," the post said. 
The European Peace Facility is a mechanism set up in 2021 aiming to support the EU's ability to create peace, security and prevent conflict, which member states pay into every year based on the agreed budget. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Wed, Mar 13 202412:30 PM EDT 
Russia says it isn't planning to join Ukraine peace conference in Switzerland 
Russia does not intend to join a high-level peace conference that aims to bring an end to the war in Ukraine, even if it is formally invited, a spokesperson for the Russia Foreign Ministry said in a statement. 
Switzerland said earlier this year that it would aim to host a peace conference in the coming months. 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson Maria Zakharova cited a number of reasons for Russia not participating in the event, including that the conference will discuss Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy's 10-point peace formula. 
Ultimatums to Russia are a key part of the plan and are unacceptable, she added. 
"Secondly, Switzerland can hardly serve as a platform for various peacekeeping efforts, since this assumes a neutral status, which Bern has lost," the statement said, according to a Google translation. 
Zakharova said previous attempts by the West to broker peace, such as the so-called Minsk agreements, had shown its inability to negotiate. 
Russia would in principle be open to negotiations, Zakharova said, but only if Russian interests are taken into account and military aid to Ukraine was halted, among other conditions. 
— Sophie Kiderlin 
Wed, Mar 13 20245:13 AM EDT 
Ukraine's security service behind drone attacks on three Russian oil refineries 
Ukraine's Security Service on Wednesday claimed responsibility for drone attacks on three oil refineries in Russia. 
Oil refineries in Ryazan, Kstovo in the Nizhny Novgorod region and Kirishy, in the Leningrad region, were all deliberately targeted, according to a Ukrainian security source who asked for anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly about operations. 
The source confirmed to NBC that the latest attacks are a continuation of a series of special operations against Russian oil refineries which were previously launched by the security service. 
"We are systematically implementing a detailed strategy to reduce the economic potential of the Russian Federation. Our task is to deprive the enemy of resources and reduce the flow of oil money and fuel, which the Russian Federation directs directly to the war, to the murders of our citizens," the source added. 
A worker at the Lukoil company-owned Imilorskoye oilfield in Kogalym, Russia, January 25, 2016 
Sergei Karpukhin | Reuters 
The security source said footage on social media proved that the consequences of the attacks were significant amid reports of fires at the facilities. The refineries attacked today are among the top five largest plants in the Russian Federation, the source noted. 
In addition, the SBU, together with other representatives of the defense forces, attacked the air base of the Russian Air Force in Buturlinivka and the military airfield in Voronezh with drones. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20248:32 AM EDT 
Russian regions face sharp uptick in Ukrainian drone, missile attacks 
M142 HIMARS launches a rocket on Russian position on December 29, 2023 in Unspecified, Ukraine. M142 HIMARS proved to be a highly effective weapon, striking targets both on the front line and deep in the Russian rear. 
Serhii Mykhalchuk | Global Images Ukraine | Getty Images 
Russia's defense ministry claimed on Wednesday that Russian air defense systems had destroyed numerous drones and missiles fired at its territory by Ukraine over the past 24 hours. 
"During the [past] day, air defense systems shot down 136 Ukrainian unmanned aerial vehicles, four HIMARS MLRS missiles made in the United States, six Grad MLRS missiles, as well as three Hammer guided aerial bombs made in France," the ministry said on Telegram. 
CNBC was unable to verify the information in the post and Ukraine has not commented on the apparent increase in attacks. Russian media agencies have published multiple reports over the last few days of attempted drone and missile attacks against Russian regions, particularly those along the border with Ukraine, as well as damage to energy infrastructure, with oil refineries being targeted. 
— Holly Ellyatt 
Wed, Mar 13 20249:22 AM EDT 
Russian oil refineries put out of action after Ukrainian drone attacks 
Several major oil refineries in Russia appear to be out of action following Ukrainian drone attacks. 
Two primary oil refining units were shut down in Rosneft's Ryazan oil refinery on Wednesday after a fire caused by a drone attack, two sources familiar with the situation told Reuters. Rosneft has not commented on the incident. 
Meanwhile, operations at the Novoshakhtinsky oil products plant in the Rostov region were stopped after drones shot down by Russian air defenses fell on the facility, regional Governor Vasily Golubev said on Telegram. No one was injured in the incident. 
Production was also halted at Lukoil's NORSI refinery in the Nizhny Novgorod region on Tuesday after a drone attack caused a fire. 
A red dawn illuminates cracking towers at the Lukoil-Nizhegorodnefteorgsintez (NORSI) oil refinery, operated by OAO Lukoil, in Nizhny Novgorod, Russia. 
Bloomberg | Bloomberg | Getty Images 
Ukraine's security service on Wednesday claimed responsibility for the drone attacks on oil refineries in Ryazan, Kstovo in the Nizhny Novgorod region and Kirishy, in the Leningrad region, saying the latest attacks were a continuation of a series of special operations against Russian oil facilities. 
"We are systematically implementing a detailed strategy to reduce the economic potential of the Russian Federation," a Ukrainian security source, who asked for anonymity because they are not authorized to speak publicly about operations, told NBC News. 
"Our task is to deprive the enemy of resources and reduce the flow of oil money and fuel, which the Russian Federation directs directly to the war, to the murders of our citizens," the source added. 
Oil prices were around 2% higher Wednesday against the backdrop of refinery attacks and potential disruption to oil supplies from major producer, Russia. 


You have a preview view of this article while we are checking your access. When we have confirmed access, the full article content will load. 
Shift in Russian Tactics Intensifies Air War in Ukraine 
Moscow’s recent gains in the east have been aided by more aggressive air support on the front lines. But that also has helped Ukraine shoot down enemy planes in the past two weeks. 
The Ukraine war has been fought largely on the ground in the past two years, with troops often locked in back-and-forth battles with heavy artillery and drone support. The countries’ air forces have played second fiddle because of Ukraine’s limited fleet of planes and Russia’s inability to gain the air supremacy it once expected. 
But as the Russian military presses on with attacks in the east, its air force has taken on a greater role. Military analysts say Russia has increasingly used warplanes near the front lines to drop powerful guided bombs on Ukrainian positions and clear a path forward for the infantry. That tactic, used most notably in Avdiivka, the strategic eastern city captured by Russian forces last month, has yielded good results, experts say. 
It has also come with risks. 
“It’s a costly but quite effective tool that Russia is now using in the war,” said Serhiy Hrabskyi, a retired Ukrainian army colonel. “It’s dangerous for them to send their fighter jets” close to the front line, he added, but it can “impact Ukrainian positions effectively.” 
The Ukrainian Army last week said it had shot down seven Su-34 fighter jets, nearly all operating in the east, just a few days after downing an A-50 long-range radar reconnaissance aircraft. It was, according to Ukrainian officials, part of a series of successful strikes against the Russian Air Force, in which Ukraine claimed to have shot down 15 planes in as many days. 
The majority of the shootdowns could not be independently verified, and a senior U.S. official expressed skepticism at that number. The official said the Ukrainians appear to be taking credit in some instances for planes they fire at but which are not confirmed to have been downed. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. If you are in Reader mode please exit and log into your Times account, or subscribe for all of The Times. 
Thank you for your patience while we verify access. 


Ukraine War Takes a Toll on Russia 
Ahead of Russian elections, the Kremlin cracks down as anti-war sentiment builds in response to the war’s impact on the military, economy and society. 
Later this week, Russia will hold its presidential election, but no one is holding their breath about the outcome. Russia’s war in Ukraine has accelerated the process of ruthless consolidation of power in the Kremlin. Vladimir Putin’s regime, with a mixture of fear and confidence, is becoming more brazenly aggressive against any opposition ahead of the election, which will be held from March 15 to 17. 
The war’s impact on Russia itself has been felt across the spectrum of Russian life. The war has affected the Russian military and economy, leading to fundamental changes in both. 
Perhaps less obvious, but no less significant, the war has also had an impact across Russian society. While most Russians believe their lives go on as before the war with the conflict having little impact on their daily existence, the truth is more nuanced. 
The War’s Impact on the Military 
The war’s toll on Russia’s military has been significant. By the end of 2023, estimates for Russian personnel killed ranged between 66,000 and 120,000. If you add in the number of wounded, that total reaches an astounding 315,000. In addition, Russia has taken tremendous equipment losses, including the severe degradation of its Black Sea fleet with 20 vessels sunk. In total, Russia has lost around 8,800 armored vehicles since it invaded Ukraine on February 24, 2022. But, as striking as those numbers are, experts estimate Russia has enough resources to continue the war at the same intensity for the next two to three years, if not longer. 
By the end of 2023, estimates for Russian personnel killed ranged between 66,000 and 120,000. 
Russia has learned some harsh lessons from its failed initial onslaught and its forces’ subsequent collapse in the face of Ukrainian counterattacks. The Russian command withstood the summer 2023 Ukrainian offensive largely because of its defensive preparations. The Russians built a series of formidable defensive lines across southern Ukraine, featuring deep minefields and extensive prepared trenches augmented with unmanned aerial vehicles. Turning to the offensive in the fall of 2023, Russia has developed infantry tactics that are allowing it to slowly gain territory, especially in the Donbas. 
Despite these developments, military experts at the United Kingdom’s Royal United Services Institute have assessed that, while Russia is likely capable of continuing offensive action through the rest of 2024, it will begin to face significant limitations in the production of weapons and munitions in 2025-2026. Even with the import of ammunition from North Korea and other places, they assess Russia will still have a deficit in 2025. Thus, they argue, Russia would struggle to achieve its offensive aims and make further gains in 2025 and beyond if “Ukraine’s partners continue to provide sufficient ammunition and training support to the AFU [Armed Forces of Ukraine] to enable the blunting of Russian attacks in 2024.” 
The War’s Impact on the Economy 
Russia’s economy has also surprised many analysts by its strong performance thus far in the war. Putin spoke about this at his 2024 address to the federal assembly: “Last year, Russia’s economy grew faster than the world economy, and we outperformed not only the leading EU countries, but all G7 economies as well.” Russia’s GDP in 2023 grew at a rate of about 3.0% to 3.5%, higher than initially predicted by international experts. This growth, however, results from some trends that threaten the long-term health of the Russian economy. Most notably, it comes on the back of high military spending for the war in Ukraine. In fact, some argue that Russia has shifted its entire economy to war production. 
The economic shifts engendered by Western sanctions and required to sustain Russia’s war effort portend significantly negative economic developments beginning perhaps as early as 2024. Some, including Russian Central Bank Governor Elvira Nabiullina, warn that Russia’s economy risks overheating. Others believe Russia will not be able to sustain this growth and will begin to slow. The Economist Intelligence Unit forecasts a “low-growth trajectory” from 2024 on, while Rand analysts argue that “the country could face a regression comparable with the era of stagnation of the late 1970s and 1980s.” 
The underlying reasons for these assessments should worry the Kremlin. The shift to defense production has been marked by an increase in the government’s role in the economy. This, combined with the mass emigration of younger Russians working in fields like IT (some estimate 10% of the IT workforce, or 100,000 people have departed Russia), is stifling innovation and economic modernization. Coupled with the lack of access to modern high-tech imports, the Russian economy may be de-modernizing, or becoming more backward — a development that threatens any prospects for long-term growth. While none of this means an immediate economic disaster for Russia, the country is spending its future on the war against Ukraine. 
The long-term outlook for Russia’s economy is not the only economic problem resulting from Russia’s war. Putin’s focus on military spending is taking a noticeable and significant toll on civilian life, especially infrastructure. This winter, heating infrastructure broke down across the country, with even pro-Kremlin newspapers reporting that over 70% of the nation’s municipal infrastructure was decayed. Repairing these networks, as Putin pledged to do in his speech, will require the injection of more government spending into an already overheated economy. 
Popular Response and Repression 
The negative economic impact from the war may also beginning to be felt by ordinary Russians. Russian pollster Russian Field asked 1,662 people in the beginning of February whether their family’s standard of living had increased or decreased in the past two years, and 35% said it had decreased. Russian war fatigue may be setting in writ large. In that same poll, more than half of the respondents indicated they had negative emotions when they heard news about the “special military operation.” In fall 2023, three Russia polling agencies reported drops in support for the war — the first time that had happened since Putin announced a partial mobilization a year before. 
The anti-war sentiment is not just appearing in formal polls. In the election this month, Putin is seeking a fifth term as president. As usual, the Kremlin is tightly controlling who will compete against Putin. They allowed one candidate to express an anti-war position (the defeat of whom would show the people’s support for the war). However, when the candidate, Boris Nadezhdin, garnered surprisingly large support as people stood in long lines throughout Russia to sign petitions to support him, the Central Election Commission subsequently refused to register him. Similar sentiment was evident at the funeral for opposition leader Alexei Navalny when thousands chanted “no to war!” 
Anti-war sentiment is bubbling beneath the surface. Retired FSB General Yevgenii Savostianov argues that while polls currently show the Russian people increasingly want peace, but only on Russian terms (that is, without returning any of the territory Russia has captured from Ukraine), this is just their initial bargaining position. He insists that the result of people standing in lines to support Nadezhdin is that now those people know they are not alone in their opposition to war. This should help them overcome the fear of the “arbitrary power of authorities” felt by almost half the people polled in January. 
The people are right to be afraid. The war has accelerated the Putin regime’s use of repression and consolidation of power in the Kremlin. There were 19,850 detentions of people for anti-war actions in Russia between February 2022 and the end of January 2024. This can include actions as simple as standing with a blank piece of paper. It has also included a brutal crackdown on political opposition. Reminiscent of the sentences handed down during the Stalin era, a Russian court in April 2023 sentenced opposition activist Vladimir Kara-Murza to 25 years in prison for his criticism of Russia’s war. 
What It Means 
The war appears to have removed many limits on Putin’s actions. This week’s presidential election will amplify that. While earlier in his presidency Putin maintained the veneer of “managed democracy” or Russian-style “sovereign democracy” by allowing staged and controlled “opposition,” the Kremlin is now tightening state control over almost all forms of expression. This is reflected in an apparent increase of the security forces’ influence in Russia’s ruling circles. Navalny’s death in prison on February 16 and Kara-Murza’s sentence are ominous. This could have serious implications not just for the regime’s domestic, but also its international behavior. The war in Ukraine is laying the foundation for a weaker Russia in a few years, but it may also be making the regime more dangerous. 
Related Publications 
Vladimir Putin views his election for a fifth term as president as a plebiscite to cement his legitimacy as a great wartime leader leading an existential fight to save Russia from Ukrainian “Nazis” and from Western threats to Russia’s very existence as a great power and a unique civilization. 
Vladimir Putin’s war to reverse Ukraine’s independence includes religion. For centuries, the Russian Orthodox Church bolstered Moscow’s rule by wielding ecclesiastical authority over Ukrainian churches. Since early 2019, Ukraine has had a self-governing Orthodox Church of Ukraine. Russia’s invasion has sharpened tensions between it and the rival branch historically linked to Moscow. Any conciliation between them could shrink areas for conflict — and the Kremlin’s ability to stir chaos — in a postwar Ukraine. It would bolster Ukraine’s future stability and reinforce a decline in Russia’s historically massive influence across the Orthodox Christian world. But can Ukrainians make that happen? 
For the first time, the International Criminal Court has charged high-level Russian commanders with crimes against humanity — showing that Russia’s assault on civilians and civilian infrastructure in Ukraine is “not sporadic, it’s systematic, it’s purposeful, it’s part of a policy,” says USIP’s Lauren Baillie. 
Sweden’s flag was hoisted at NATO’s headquarters in Brussels today as the Nordic country became the 32nd member of the transatlantic military alliance. Sweden’s membership, which follows that of neighboring Finland, is a consequence of Vladimir Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. 


Understanding the Russo-Ukrainian War: A Guide From War on the Rocks 
We at War on the Rocks have curated this list of articles and podcasts to help you gain a deeper understanding of the history, drivers, background, and events of Russia’s massive assault on Ukraine. Whether you are a soldier or a student, a policymaker or a pundit, a teacher or a techie, this will be useful for you. 
Critically, these offerings help place the conflict in the broader context of relations and confrontations between Russia and the West. These resources go back to 2014 and are organized by focus: strategy and the military balance, diplomacy, history, resistance, nuclear weapons and arms control, cyber, energy, Russian politics, and more. This list will be updated regularly. 
Editor’s note: To mark the one-year anniversary of the Russian invasion of Ukraine on February 24, 2022, we have updated this guide with all of our material that can help you better understand the conflict. Become a member today to seamlessly access all of these articles and podcasts. 
“A Heavy Price to Pay?” Net Assessment with Zack Cooper, Melanie Marlowe, and Christopher Preble (1/2021) 
“Solving the Russia Riddle,” Net Assessment with Zack Cooper, Melanie Marlowe, and Christopher Preble (7/2021) 
“A Promising Past?” Horns of a Dilemma with James Goldgeier (7/2021) 
“Growing and Shrinking,” Horns of a Dilemma with James Goldgeier, Alexandra Hall Hall, and Doyle Hodges (7/21) 
“Great Power Cyber Party,” War on the Rocks podcast with Dmitri Alperovitch, Erica Borghard, and Jason Healey (4/2021) 
Then you'll love this job opportunity! War on the Rocks is hiring another full-time editor. Help produce the articles you love to read. 

