Frozen Arctic swamps a possible methane hazard 
Scientists from Tomsk State University have embarked on a study of hilly Siberian and Arctic swamps. The experts believe that a transformation of these ecosystems can cause large-scale natural upheavals, including methane discharges into the atmosphere. This process can also disrupt river flows and the biogeochemical composition of river water. 
The changing climate is transforming the environment and expediting processes that could lead to large-scale natural upheavals. For example, permafrost layers are melting faster, and this can release climatically active gases, mostly methane, from frozen swamps. This is particularly true of swamps located along the southern boundary of the cryolithic zone,” said project manager Tatiana Raudina, a senior research associate with Tomsk University’s Bio-Geo-Climate Laboratory. 
Researchers will work in two sections of frozen swamps in hilly areas of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. They will use tacheometers and photogrammeters to record the local terrain; these systems will show the slightest changes in swamp micro-landscapes and their heterogeneity. 
Researchers also plan to place salt markers (NaCl) in the swamps to evaluate the contribution of their micro-topography to carbon flows from the frozen swamps into waterbodies. 
The use of conservative salt tracers will help study water flows, including the speed and direction, depending on a given sector’s heterogeneity, the structure of peat deposits, precipitation volumes and the level of swamp waters. This will help us understand how various micro-terrain elements and the peat structure control the nature and extent of intra-soil water flows and the transfer of dissolved substances,” the university’s press service explained. 
Expert data will make it possible to predict changes in swamp ecosystems during the climate’s transformation. 
The Murmansk Region to launch a Your Home in the Arctic program with easy-term mortgages 
More measures to support people who plan to buy or build housing will become available in the Murmansk Region. Specialists from the regional housing construction assistance center spoke about the current status of the Your Home in the Arctic program and an easy-term mortgage program. 
Northerners’ desire to take advantage of the proposed support measures is understandable, but they must be patient. Currently, regulatory documents are being drafted to control the mechanism for implementing the law,” officials from the Housing Construction Assistance Center noted, adding that individual applications will be accepted, registered and reviewed after the regulatory documents had been adopted. 
Notably, the Your Home in the Arctic program is primarily designed to stimulate private housing construction. The availability of a land plot, including the rights of use, will entitle the owner to the support measures. 
Your Home in the Arctic program participants will be eligible for three support measures: to buy a wooden house kit, the construction of a house and the purchase of a private residential house. The area of ​​the house in all three cases cannot exceed 150 sq m,” officials from the regional department said. 
It is assumed that the program will be available not only to the residents of the Murmansk Region, but also to people from others regions who are willing to relocate to the Murmansk Region. To do so, the latter must have either an employment contract or a business registered on the Kola Peninsula. 
In addition, a new regional program is planned for reimbursing part of the interest costs on mortgage loans when purchasing apartments in a new building or a building under construction. 
The reimbursement will be limited to 2 percent with a loan term of up to 10 years, and a loan amount not exceeding 3.5 million rubles. According to the Central Bank, about 10,000 residents of the Murmansk Region received a mortgage for that amount of money in 2020. The program will apply to the purchase of housing in a building under construction or a new building. 
Arctic Council approves Russian anti-virus project 
The Arctic Council approved a draft project by Russian experts on countering the viruses emerging due to permafrost melting. 
Nikolai Korchunov, Russian Ambassador at Large and Chair of the Committee of Senior Arctic Officials, said earlier that climate warming in the northern latitudes is dangerous because it can wake viruses that have been concealed by permafrost. As a Chair of the Arctic Council, Russia has suggested a biosafety program for countering this threat through a concerted effort. 
The council approved the Russia-initiated biosafety project in the framework of the Sustainable Development Working Group (SDWG). It provides for the joint development of a system for forecasting, monitoring and sharing information on the risks related to the uncontrolled cross-border transfer of dangerous viruses and toxic substances in the Arctic Region,” he said. 
Mr Korchunov noted that Moscow is not facing problems in implementing the line of Russia’s Chairmanship of the Arctic Council or attempts by its members to prevent its work. He said the cross-cutting priority of Russia’s Chairmanship of the Council is to ensure the sustainable development of the Arctic.” 
This priority was put on paper in the documents adopted by the council’s ministerial session in Reykjavik in May 2021 – the declaration and a strategic plan, the first advanced planning document to outline the main areas of cooperation in the Arctic up to 2030. All council members support the approach of Russia’s Chairmanship. We are not encountering any problems with implementation or any attempts by other council members to obstruct it,” the diplomat said. 
Nikolai Zapryagayev appointed Acting General Director of the Russian Far East and Arctic Development Corporation 
Nikolai Zapryagayev has been appointed Acting General Director of the Russian Far East and Arctic Development Corporation. His previous position at the corporation was Deputy General Director for Business Development. 
Nikolai Zapryagayev has been appointed Acting General Director of the Russian Far East and Arctic Development Corporation,” reads the press release. Prior to his new appointment, Nikolai Zapryagayev in his role as Deputy General Director of the corporation was responsible for resident policy, project management and relations with federal and regional authorities, and development institutions.” 
Zapryagayev has been with the corporation since 2017 and was directly involved in developing government support mechanisms for investment projects in the Russian Far East and the Arctic. 
Igor Nosov, who had led the corporation since May 2021, died in Moscow on February 8 at the age of 43. 
President asks Emergencies Ministry to work with large Arctic-based companies 
The Ministry of Civil Defense, Emergencies and Disaster Relief must work more closely with large companies in the Arctic when developing the emergency and rescue infrastructure in the region in order to save budget money, the President of Russia said. 
Note that this work requires more interaction with large companies that have hydrocarbon extraction and processing facilities in the Arctic such as Novatek and Rosneft,” Vladimir Putin said at a meeting of the Emergencies Ministry Board. 
According to President Putin, all that will allow for more efficient use of budget funds.” 
Vladimir Putin said that there are plans to allocate over 18 billion rubles worth of federal funding to develop such infrastructure, in particular, to provide the Emergencies Ministry with the latest Arctic-type helicopters. 
Acting Emergencies Minister Alexander Chupriyan reported that the ministry was actively working with businesses regarding the development of the Arctic infrastructure. 
Work is underway to establish Arctic centers at existing facilities of the gas production cluster in Sabetta (Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area), as well as to create emergency and rescue infrastructure at oil production facilities in the Sever Bay area. In January 2022, the active stage of building an Arctic center in Pevek began as part of the Arctic Rescue Technologies project. It is expected to open by 2024,” Chupriyan said. 
According to Chupriyan, these projects will provide the Northern Sea Route as well as the critical infrastructure facilities in this area with professional emergency and rescue units and professional flights of the Russian Emergencies Ministry. 
Novosibirsk scientist discovers new species of extinct mollusks in Arctic samples 
An employee of the Trofimuk Institute of Petroleum Geology and Geophysics of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences has discovered new species of belemnites, an extinct group of cephalopod mollusks, in samples from the Nordvik Peninsula in the Arctic. 
Vsevolod Yefremenko, an engineer at the laboratory of paleontology and stratigraphy of the Mesozoic and Cenozoic, got new results after examining previously unclaimed collections of samples taken from the Nordvik Peninsula, located near the southeastern part of the Taimyr Peninsula, in different years of the late 20th and early 21st centuries. 
In particular, Vsevolod Yefremenko described two new species of belemnites of the family Cylindroteuthididae – Arctoteuthis angusta and Boreioteuthis mirifica,” the institute’s press service writes. 
The specialist believes the second species can also be found in other sections of the Arctic, where deposits of the same age, over 132 million years, are exposed. 
In addition to this, Lagonibelus necopinus was described during the research. Previously it was only found in the Northern Urals, and this is the first time it has been found in East Siberia. This find is the earliest evidence of the existence of this species. It made it possible to fully determine the subfamily (Lagonibelinae) and genus of the species Lagonibelus necopinus,” the institute noted. 
Today the scientist is studying a large collection of Lower Cretaceous belemnites from North Siberia. The results for the Anabar District, to which the Nordvik Peninsula belongs, are ready for publication. 
New samples to be added to Global Seed Vault 
The Arctic Global Seed Vault will receive new samples of global crops: grains of millet, sorghum, and wheat from genetic banks in Sudan, Uganda, New Zealand, Germany and Lebanon. 
In addition to this, about 8,000 samples will be sent to it by the International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA). In 2012, the center moved its headquarters from Aleppo to Beirut because of the war in Syria. In 2015, ICARDA became the first organization in history to ask the Global Seed Vault for samples to replace the collection destroyed during the Syrian War. The center took grains from the vault on two other occasions, in 2017 and 2019, to restore its own collection of crops. 
The fact that the collection of seeds destroyed in Syria during the civil war has been systematically restored confirms that the vault safeguards current and future food supplies and local food security,” Norwegian Minister of International Development Anne Beathe Tvinnereim said. 
There are over 1.1 million samples of seeds from almost 6,000 varieties of plants from 89 genetic banks from all over the world in the vault. It also serves as a reserve for selectors when creating new varieties of agricultural crops. There used to be more than 6,000 various plants grown in the world, but now people get about 40 percent of their calories from only three main crops: corn, wheat, and rice. This leaves food supplies vulnerable and dependable on climate change, which can result in crop failures. 
Moscow hosts international conference, The Arctic: Humanitarian Directions of Development 
Experts discussed the history, linguistics, arts, ethnography and humanitarian aspects of the natural sciences in the context of addressing the acute problems of the Arctic peoples and preserving their cultural heritage at the international conference, The Arctic: Humanitarian Directions of Development. It took place February 15-16 as one of the main events under Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council. 
Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Senior Arctic Official of the Russian Federation to the Arctic Council stressed that the Arctic was an important part of the national and international cultural space. He also noted that it was necessary to preserve the cultural and historical heritage of the indigenous peoples of the North. 
Russia’s chairmanship includes a special emphasis on the human dimension and improvement of the quality of life of the people living in the Arctic. This is why last June Russia initiated the project ‘Digitalization of the Language and Cultural Heritage of the Indigenous Peoples of the Arctic’ to maintain the cultural perspective of the region’s development. The project was supported by the Arctic Council working group on sustainable development. Culture is an essential part of the human dimension of Arctic cooperation, where museums can play an important role. In this context, we support the possibility of uniting the museum collections of the Arctic countries into one online exhibition,” Nikolai Korchunov said. 
Rector of the Moscow State Linguistic University Irina Krayeva noted that today the global community is concerned about climate change and prevention of disasters in the conditions of the extreme North. 
Ethnic and cultural factors deserve special attention, which requires more Arctic research into humanitarian knowledge. This is reflected in the priorities of Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council, which includes the development of human resources, support for the indigenous minorities, and the preservation of their cultural heritage, as well as international scientific cooperation and Arctic tourism,” the rector noted. 
According to Russian Deputy Minister of Science and Higher Education Natalya Bocharova, the goal for the total number of admissions to universities in the Russian Arctic is 5,830 state-funded places for the 2022/2023 academic year, which is 10 percent higher than the number of places approved for the current academic year. 
The conference program includes sections on the arts and folklore of the ethnic groups of the North, with reports by specialized linguists on the preservation of the languages of the Northern peoples. I believe that this conference can become an international and interdisciplinary platform for the exchange of expertise and can be used to review cultural, folklore, historical, and linguistic research in the Arctic,” Natalya Bocharova said. 
The importance of international cooperation in the Arctic was also noted by Director of the Fulbright Program in Russia Dr. Joel Ericson. 
The Arctic is a microcosm of nature and culture. We want this region to become economically sustainable. And we hope the indigenous peoples will feel protected,” Joel Ericson said. 
The discussions included leading Russian and foreign scientists, officials from the Russian Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the Foreign Ministry, and Arctic diplomatic missions, as well as representatives from the Association of the Indigenous Peoples of the North, Siberia, and the Far East, the Arctic Athabaskan Council, the Saami Council, the Aleut International Association, and the Inuit Circumpolar Council. Presentations were delivered by 180 speakers from the Arctic Council member states as well as Italy, Hungary and Estonia. The event brought together 40 universities, 20 scientific institutions and laboratories, eight public organizations, and independent researchers and artists. 
A stream of the conference can be found at https://arctic-council-russia.ru/broadcast/the-arctic-developments-from-the-perspective-of-the-humanities/ 
ArcticXpert software to calculate foundation stability in the Arctic 
The ArcticXpert software, which can simulate the behavior of building foundations in the permafrost, will be presented at the Ammosov Northeastern Federal University this fall. 
Due to climate change, the Arctic ground has begun to thaw. According to researchers, the areas most affected are located beyond the Polar circle: the Murmansk and Arkhangelsk regions, Yakutia, the Nenets Autonomous Area, the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, Chukotka and Taimyr. 
The software will help forecast threats related to soil mobility due to the thawing permafrost. 
The software will help builders and geologists make accurate forecasts of the condition of the ground they will build on,” said Sergei Stepanov, head of the university’s laboratory of computing technologies for multiphysical and large-scale process modeling in the cryolithic zone. 
ArcticXpert will factor in the changes in the surface heat exchange, climate change, technology and foundation building timeframe, as well as cooling methods in two-dimensional and three-dimensional modes. It will also calculate the load-bearing capacity of buildings that are built on the permafrost. 
The Yakut Research and Design Institute of Construction will be the first to try the new software. 
President chairs a meeting on Russian Arctic zone development 
Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting, held via videoconference, on the development of the Russian Federation’s Arctic zone. 
In his opening remarks, the president said that Russia prioritizes resolving social, economic and infrastructure problems in this crucial region. Another priority is implementing large investment projects. 
Hundreds of thousands of Russian citizens live and work in the Arctic territories; they live where most of the aspects of this country’s national security – the environment, natural resources, military, political, and technological – are concentrated,” he said. 
The president added that in the face of the sanctions, all Arctic-related projects and plans should be given special attention and not be postponed. 
This concerns the social sphere as much as anything. We should always focus on matters that are most sensitive for people. What is at stake under the extreme conditions of the Arctic is people’s health and security, as well as the survival of entire towns and settlements,” he said. 
The president instructed the responsible agencies in the Arctic to reorganise their operations, primarily to be able to supply Arctic residents, rotation workers, businesses and social institutions with food, medicines, fuel, building materials, and equipment without interruption. Northern supply haul will begin soon, he added. 
The Arctic should be supplied with the necessary goods and services – and in full. This is of fundamental importance because price stability has to be guaranteed in the Arctic’s populated areas. The list of vessels to be used for the haul and their sailing plan should be compiled as soon as possible. Priority departures from ports should be ensured as well as the more active use of air transport,” Putin said. 
He also urged the Government and the heads of the Arctic regions to take under their special control the construction or renovation of social facilities – kindergartens, schools, hospitals, and primary health care units. 
Head of Yakutia calls for dredging the port of Tiksi 
A dredging operation is required in the port of Tiksi, Yakutia, to develop the local transport hub and to facilitate the projects in Yakutia’s Arctic zone. 
We need to focus on dredging operations – specifically, for example, in the port of Tiksi. <…> No dredging has been performed since the 1990s with the result that the port’s depth has decreased from 10 to 5 meters. Upgrading the sea-lane is important for expediting the development projects in Yakutia’s Arctic zone,” Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Aysen Nikolayev said during a meeting of the Council for the Development of the Russian Far East, the Arctic and the Antarctic under the Federation Council, entitled Strategic Approaches to the Development of the Northern Sea Route.” 
According to Aysen Nikolayev, equipment deterioration in the port of Tiksi has reached 90 percent. 
Developing the port of Tiksi is important for everyone. It is an important transport hub and a base for the implementation of major infrastructure projects in the area of mineral resource management, energy, and the development of the social sphere in the republic’s Arctic regions,” he explained. 
There are more than 50 ports on the Northern Sea Route, including Sabetta, Igarka, Dudinka, Dikson, Tiksi, Pevek, Beringovsky, Provideniya, and others. 
Port improvement is also important in the face of the sanctions that have been imposed on Russia. Experts believe that restrictions on air flights will lead to a boost in icebreaker supported shipping in the eastern part of the Northern Sea Route (NSR). A statement to this effect was expressed by Rosatom’s special representative for Arctic development, Vladimir Panov, as he addressed the Federation Council Tuesday. 
Let me emphasize the influence that the sanctions could have on the development of Arctic projects. Direct influence should be discussed with caution, but we can say that many customers will certainly shift from Europe to Asia. So, it will be a priority to ensure year-round navigation on the eastern NSR,” he said, adding that it would be necessary to commission another six nuclear icebreakers to implement the planned projects by 2030. 
Rostec develops frost-resistant batteries 
The holding company Ruselectronics, affiliated with the Rostec State Corporation, has tested lithium-ion storage batteries that can power any devices in hostile environments and at temperatures ranging from minus 50 to plus 50 degrees Celsius. 
Each battery uses a chemical source of electricity weighing not more than 150 grams. It is possible to recharge these batteries at least 2,700 times, depending on the specific working conditions, and there are plans to start mass-producing them before the year is out. 
Experts tested these storage batteries using charging-discharging benches with a cryogenic camera. During the tests, they calculated their most important specifications, including nominal capacity and conformity with the specifications, as well as the number of charging-discharging cycles. 
The new storage batteries can function in various fields, including telecommunications, medicine, robotics, the oil and gas sector, civil aviation, numerous weapons systems and military equipment models. 
Unlike standard foreign-made storage batteries, the new devices, developed at the Impulse Science and Production Association, can operate much longer in subzero temperatures, and it is therefore possible to use them in the Far North and the Arctic. Their radiation-resistant versions can also function in outer space. 
Foreign Ministry: Russia is open to cooperation with Arctic states 
Russia remains open to cooperation with all the Arctic states and non-regional organisations in the name of sustained development in the Arctic. 
We remain open to cooperation with all the interested states and organisations, both Arctic and non-regional ones, which share our approach to and understanding of the importance of the region’s sustained development,” Nikolai Korchunov, Chairman of the Arctic Council’s Committee of Senior Arctic Officials, said at a briefing. 
Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova pointed out that the far-fetched linking of the Ukrainian narrative with the Arctic Council agenda does not meet the organisation’s goals of preserving the Arctic as a region of peace, stability and constructive cooperation.” 
She noted that effective and sustained development of the Arctic was impossible without Russia, which accounts for 60 percent of the Arctic coast and over half of the region’s population.” 
The Russian Federation is resolved to continue practicing constructive approaches to cooperation in the Arctic while strengthening its sovereignty in the high latitudes,” the diplomat added. 
Inuit folklore book published in Anadyr 
A new Inuit book on folklore was presented at the Chukotka Heritage Museum Center in Anadyr. It is the third book in the series, Naukan Melodies: A Collection of Songs and Melodies. The book includes songs and dances performed by the Atasikun inter-ethnic ensemble. 
In addition to 20 songs with sheet music, the book describes five famous Naukan dances and features 40 exclusive photos. QR codes lead to videos of Atasikun performances shot by professional videographer Omryn Ruvanto. The book has been published ahead of the 36th anniversary (1986) of the founding of this Inuit ensemble in the Chukotka District, the remotest part of the Chukchi Autonomous Area. The ensemble’s name translates as We are together.” 
There are over 120 Naukan songs, both old ones and some from the 1980s. You can still find many more of these folk songs,” said Valentina Leonova, Deputy Director of the Chukotka Institute for the Development of Education and Professional Improvement. 
Russia praises Chinese participation in new Arctic projects 
Russia appreciates China’s role in Arctic energy projects, including Yamal LNG and Arctic LNG 2, and will welcome Chinese businesses’ participation in other regional projects, according to Russian Ambassador-at-Large Nikolai Korchunov. We praise Chinese companies’ involvement in the energy projects operating in the Russian Arctic – in particular, Yamal LNG and Arctic LNG 2. We will welcome involvement of our Chinese partners in other projects in the Russian Arctic, including through the Arctic Council,” Korchunov said. The ambassador noted the increasing importance of developing maritime navigation in the Arctic for Russia, especially in its eastern areas. This field will see an upward trajectory in the near future, primarily due to the dynamic development of the Asia-Pacific market that is becoming a real driver of global economic growth. For our cooperation with China, it means significantly higher demand for mineral commodities that are of key importance for the global energy transition,” the Russian diplomat added. He said that further development of northern maritime routes and especially the Northern Sea Route, plays a major role in ensuring uninterrupted operation of the global economy and supply chains. Korchunov noted that, while the work of the Arctic Council is currently on pause, Russia continues to ensure that the region develops smoothly and maintains constructive cooperation with the council’s observer states, including China. Prospects for expanding Russia-China links, including in the Arctic, are tied up with the high level of bilateral trade and economic cooperation. China is Russia’s largest trade partner for both exports and imports. Naturally, we take this into account when planning international cooperation at the high latitudes,” he added. The ambassador stressed that energy, including non-hydrocarbon forms, and projects related to the development of the Northern Sea Route and associated coastline infrastructure could become the most high-potential areas of cooperation for Russia and China. 
Russian Foreign Ministry warns of consequences of suspending Arctic Council work 
Since March, the activity of the Arctic Council, including project development, has been de facto suspended. Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Chair of the Committee of Senior Arctic Officials, believes that the suspension will lead to increased risks to soft security in the region. Russia is urging Arctic Council participants to resume the work of the council. 
This pause will inevitably result in increased risks and challenges to soft security in the Arctic. This decision is fraught with negative consequences, including for the wellbeing of the people living in the Arctic, including indigenous peoples,” Korchunov said. 
According to the ambassador, Undoubtedly, the speedy resumption of the comprehensive work of the Arctic Council is in the interests of both the Arctic states and the international community in general.” 
Russia is ready to resume dialogue in the high latitudes,” the ambassador said. It should be noted that our partners have only temporarily suspended their participation in the Arctic Council, which does not require revising the council membership or structure.” 
According to Korchunov, it was underscored in Tromsø that the Arctic Council is at its most valuable when all eight Arctic states are participating, and that the Western members were not interested in changing the council’s structure or composition. 
In this sense, our colleagues’ position has not changed. Russia remains open to the prompt resumption of the council’s activity so that our cooperation can continue without affecting those who depend on it. We will seek to minimize the possible negative effects of the pause in the council’s work,” Korchunov concluded. 
He also added that the possible NATO membership of Sweden and Finland could alter how cooperation proceeds in the Arctic. 
It seems that we also should understand that changing the military and political status of these countries might call for adjustments to cooperation in the high latitudes. Time will tell what adjustments could be made. The question of Finland and Sweden joining the North Atlantic Treaty Organization should be viewed through the lens of how it would facilitate trust between Arctic countries and social institutions,” Korchunov said. 
Finland and Sweden earlier submitted membership applications to NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg. 
The Severny Polyus ice-resistant platform leaves for sea trials 
In St. Petersburg, the Severny Polyus (North Pole) ice-resistant self-propelled platform has been sent for contractor trials. 
Minister of Natural Resources and Environment of the Russian Federation Alexander Kozlov, who was attending the send-off, commented on the importance of the production process, saying that the platform was a complex facility built from a blank slate.” 
There is nothing like this platform anywhere in the world. The Admiralty Shipyards did its best to arrive at this stage on time. Right now, you can see a wonderful embodiment of the plans that were conceived on a sheet of paper and received support from our national leaders. Let me say that we have received a further instruction to develop new ships for the Arctic. We hope that the Admiralty Shipyards will be our reliable partner in implementing these future projects,” Alexander Kozlov stated. 
Interestingly, the platform has left for sea trials on the Polar Explorer Day. 
In September, the ship will head for the Arctic, where the North Pole-41 expedition is set to start. We are preparing an extensive research program that includes meteorological, oceanological, hydrochemical and biological studies. But we understand that the main objective of this first run is to see how the ship will perform amid ice, test the new equipment, and organize research both on board the platform and on the ice,” Director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute Alexander Makarov said. 
The ship will undergo a series of trials in the Baltic Sea to certify the signals, location and navigation systems. Also to be tested are the auxiliary diesel generator sets, the main diesel engine, the cruising systems, the auxiliary boiler plants, and the principal ship propulsion units. 
Russia to build two and overhaul seven Arctic airfields by 2030 
Russia has plans to build two Arctic airfields and overhaul seven more by 2030. 
Work is underway to expand the Arctic airfield network and build new facilities. The plan to expand the airfield network of the Russian Armed Forces by 2030 includes building two airfields in Nagurskoye and Temp and overhauling seven more in Severomorsk-1, Severomorsk-2, Severomorsk-3, Rogachyovo, Talagi and Kipelovo, as well as a seaplane base in Safonovo,” Northern Fleet Commander Admiral Alexander Moiseyev said. 
When completed, the Nagurskoye and Temp airfields will receive all types of long-range, freight and naval aviation planes. This will help deliver weapons and consignments of various cargo to Arctic archipelagos’islands, Admiral Moiseyev added. 
He also noted that the Arctic currently lacked any challenges warranting the use of military force. Russia advocates cooperation between states in the polar latitudes and the creation of an international partnership for preserving the Arctic region as a zone of peace, stability and low military tensions in line with international law and efforts to ensure Russia’s national interests in the Arctic,” Admiral Moiseyev said. As I have repeatedly said, there are no military challenges warranting the use of military force in the Arctic.” 
The admiral noted that, in the past few years, the Arctic has become increasingly important for the domestic and foreign policies of many states, primarily the Arctic states (Russia, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and the United States), as well as China, India and others. 
Mikhail Mishustin: Northern Sea Route development is a key national priority 
The development of the Northern Sea Route (NSR) is becoming a key priority amid sanctions pressure. 
With the sanctions pressure, Northern Sea Route development is emerging as a key national priority. The NSR is a reliable and safe transport corridor located within Russia’s territorial waters and exclusive economic zone,” Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said at a Government meeting. It can be used for alternative routes and exports to friendly countries.” 
He added that Rosatom would be responsible for NSR navigation. 
The President has instructed the Government to amend the legislation in order to centralise the authority to administer the Northern Sea Route. Rosatom State Corporation, the owner of our unique national icebreaker fleet, will oversee the management of NSR navigation,” the Prime Minister noted. 
The Government will also discuss ways to enhance the efficiency of government spending on the construction of river and sea vessels of all kinds. 
The sectoral strategy includes ambitious goals, which mean that the Russian shipyards will be working hard for years to come, including building up our Arctic fleet and maintaining the batch production of powerful nuclear icebreakers for year-round navigation along the Northern Sea Route,” Mikhail Mishustin pointed out. 
Geologists find new oil deposit in Yamal 
Geologists discovered a new oil formation at the Sredne-Iturskoye deposit in the Purovsky District in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. The new deposit is 60 kilometers northwest of Noyabrsk, and it contains an estimated 1 million metric tons of crude oil. 
The Glavtyumengeologiya prospecting company discovered the Sredne-Iturskoye deposit in 1990. Extraction began in 1993, and the deposit is one of the so-called ripe” assets that have been operating for a long time. It has produced 15.8 million metric tons of oil since 1993. However, it is still possible to continue developing this old” deposit whose residual oil reserves are estimated at 11 million metric tons. 
Geologists began studying southern Yamal decades ago, but today modern technology allows us to interpret geological data much more accurately. The discovery of a new oil formation at the Sredne-Iturskoye deposit shows once again that the potential for long-time extraction is far from over,” Gazpromneft, Noyabrskneftegaz General Director Alexei Ogorodov said. 
The experts discovered the formation after thoroughly analyzing seismic reconnaissance data. There are plans to drill six more wells there. The Karamovskoye and Kholmogorskoye deposits will also be studied in more detail because it is possible that there are more new formations beneath their operational wells. 
Arctic Voices: New film to highlight Northern peoples’ traditions, music and lif 
The film Arctic Voices features three novellas about people in the Extreme North and their lives. Each story shows the role of local traditions and music in the life of the protagonists, as well as the struggle between two civilizations, namely, modern trends and ethnic customs and traditions that are passed on from generation to generation. 
The first novella tells the story of Masne, a young Nenets woman and a TikTok actress who is torn between popularity and quiet family life in a chum, or reindeer-skin tent. Although she has more opportunities in the big city, she feels truly happy at home when her family gathers for dinner near the fire, and when her mother plaits her hair to the sounds of ethnic music. 
The second novella focuses on the Taibarei family, whose pagan members sew ethnic clothing at their own tailor shop. The film crew will follow them to the tundra in search of new reindeer skins, and they will also watch shaman rites typical of Northern ethnic people. 
The third novella will introduce Nikolai Kurilov, who wrote the widely popular poem Homeland from the film Brother: Part Two, directed by Alexei Balabanov . Written in the Yukaghir language and translated into Russian, the poem came to symbolize an entire generation. In turn, Nikolai Kurilov sees himself as an artist, a journalist and a keeper of the Yukaghir ethnic group’s traditions. 
Denis Simachyov, a Moscow restaurateur, DJ and sound producer, stars in all three novellas. He joined an expedition and visited the Arctic in order to record local songs and voices, and to mix them into a single musical composition. In the final episode, he will play a striking DJ set on a huge all-terrain vehicle called the Burlak. The set consists of soundtracks based on local folklore. The film’s soundtrack will later be released on music platforms. 
During the expedition, Denis Simachyov collected over 12 ethnic voice recordings and used them to compile the Arctic music album and to release a collection of vinyl records. 
The film was shot in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, the Nenets Autonomous Area and the Sakha (Yakutia) Republic, and it will be released on June 9. 
Scientists from Belgorod create alloys with high strength and ductility for low temperatures 
A team of scientists from Belgorod State University (BelSU) have developed a unique alloy composed of iron, cobalt, nickel, chromium and carbon, capable of maintaining its strength at a temperature of -150°C and below. 
According to the developers, the material is also cost-effective and can be widely applied in systems used in the exploration of space, the World Ocean, the Arctic and Antarctic. 
At present, systems designed to operate at extremely low temperatures use so-called austenitic steels. But their strength, ductility and other mechanical properties are often insufficient in environments such as outer space, or for creating critical elements of cryogenic equipment. 
Our alloy’s properties surpass all commercial analogues at room and cryogenic temperatures alike. At the liquid nitrogen temperature of -196°C, it is 50 percent stronger than the best analogue and has an excellent ductility of 24 percent. In combination with the excellent crack toughness, this provides an ideal balance of mechanical properties,” said Dmitry Shaisultanov, senior researcher at BelSU. 
He added that the use of carbon as well as higher iron content contribute to an even higher strength and lower cost. The alloy’s high mechanical properties ensure the so-called TRIP effect, the scientists explained. The combination of high strength and ductility is the result of a change in the material’s crystallographic structure that occurs in the process of cold plastic deformation. 
Such alloys are attractive because they have deep drawing characteristics, meaning they can be used to make stronger thin-walled hollow parts. Also, their use opens up a wide range of possibilities for systems that operate in extremely low temperatures, primarily in the exploration of outer space and airspace, the World Ocean, the Arctic and the Antarctic,” Dmitry Shaisultanov added. 
The results obtained during the study also expand the understanding of the mechanisms that determine the behavior of alloys capable of the TRIP effect under various conditions. This will enable a more accurate choice of materials and processing techniques to create products with the necessary combinations of mechanical properties, the scientists explained. 
Maria Zakharova: The West’s policy in the Arctic is flawed; attempts to isolate Russia are illusory 
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova called the West’s Arctic policy flawed after the Arctic Council member countries’ decision to resume the implementation of its projects without Russia. 
This highlights a chaotic decision- making process that can only show that attempts to isolate Russia in the Arctic are an illusion. Our Western partners are trying to cling to any idea to create the impression of their allegedly independent role in Arctic affairs,” Zakharova said in a statement. 
She emphasized that, as the main and unchallenged factor in the Arctic and as the current Arctic Council chair, Russia continues to implement projects initiated by Moscow and prioritizing Russia’s regions. 
Obviously the West’s current politicized Arctic policy is flawed and does not help resolve the problems that concern the destiny of humankind,” Zakharova added. 
Earlier, Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and the United States issued a statement noting their intention to resume limited work in the Council on projects that do not involve the Russian Federation. According to the document, the work of the Arctic Council was suspended on March 3. 
Yamal authorities establish awards and grants for permafrost researchers 
Starting in 2023, geocryology specialists in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area (YANAA) will receive a gubernatorial award of up to 1 million rubles. The annual award will be open to scientists with Ph.D.s and D.Sc.s whose work is of theoretical and practical importance for the region. Dissertations should be based on research conducted in the YANAA. 
We are seeking to have the academic community focus on permafrost as much as we can. Regrettably, we have discovered that there were practically no related studies in recent years. Last fall, Yamal hosted a conference on permafrost that was attended by leading specialists. At the conference, we agreed to establish special incentive payments for Ph.D. and D.Sc. papers on permafrost, which would carry practical importance for our region. I hope this support will incentivize scientists to do more research on this difficult subject,” YANAA Governor Dmitry Artyukhov said. 
There are plans to grant awards to no more than four Ph.D. holders and four D.Sc. holders per year. The decisions will be approved by the autonomous area’s Council for Science and Higher Education. The one-time payment will amount to 500,000 rubles for those with Ph.D.s and 1 million rubles for those with D.Sc.s, the Governor’s press service reports. 
Apart from that, there will be incentives for scientists intending to study permafrost in the region. Subsidies will be allocated following a competitive selection process held annually. The main selection criterion will be the significance of the research results for the YANAA. The largest grants will amount to 5 million rubles. 
The Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area was among the first to become aware of how important it is to study the geocryology processes and interactions between permafrost and buildings and infrastructure facilities. Grants and awards for permafrost researchers are unique measures of support and will encourage the best scientists and geocryology specialists to come to the region. They are in high demand at the research center and local businesses,” Director of the Research Center for the Study of the Arctic Gleb Krayev said. 
Russian-Asian Arctic Research Consortium founded at NEFU 
Over ten Russian and Chinese universities will become part of the Russian-Asian Arctic Research Consortium founded at the Ammosov North-Eastern Federal University, NEFU, together with the Northern Forum international organization of northern regions. 
Due to its geographic location, NEFU can serve as a bridge connecting the Arctic and Asia. The idea of the consortium is to create a mechanism to implement joint projects to research topical problems of sustainable development of Northern and Arctic regions as well as develop joint interdisciplinary courses and exchange programs in order to help to expand Russia’s international ties with Asian countries at a time of new global challenges,” said Daryana Maksimova, deputy CEO of the Northern Forum, acting head of the International Research Department at the NEFU Institute of Modern Languages and International Studies. She was speaking at the second forum Universities and the Development of Russia’s Geostrategic Territories. 
Maksimova enumerated the institutions that have agreed to join the consortium so far, which include the Oceanological University of China, Yugra State University (Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Region), Taimyr College (Krasnoyarsk Territory), National Research Tomsk State University, Murmansk State Technical University, St. Petersburg Committee for the Arctic Affairs, North-Eastern State University (Magadan), Institute of Economics and Industrial Production Organization of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences (Novosibirsk Region), Petrozavodsk State University (Republic of Karelia), Nenets Agrarian and Economic College, and the Association for the Development of the Export Potential of Education. 
She added that talks were underway with Harbin Polytechnic University (China) and the Scientific Center for Arctic Research (Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Region). A proposal to join has also been sent to the Korea Maritime Institute and the National Center for Polar and Oceanic Research (India). Further efforts to attract new members will be carried out in such countries as Vietnam and Singapore, as well as Hong Kong. 
Archeologists to study Yamal burial mound and sites in 2022 for the first time 
This year, archeologists are planning an entire cycle of expeditions for an in-depth study of a burial mound and sites in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area for the first time. This research will help them learn more about the ancient and medieval history of a northern area of Western Siberia and Yamal, when local residents had no written language of their own. 
Yamal archeologists will conduct in-depth studies of the Nyurymposllor 4 burial mound and the Yorkytinskoye 3 and Tovygort sites during the 2022 summer fieldwork season. Researchers from the Scientific Center for Arctic Research discovered the landmarks fairly recently, and no excavation work has been conducted there so far. Scientists hope that subsequent research will provide an insight into the ancient and medieval history of a northern area of Western Siberia and Yamal, when local residents had no written language of their own. Modern science can obtain such information only through archeological research,” the regional government said in a statement. 
The first expedition will set out from Salekhard for the Nyurymposllor 4 burial mound dating to the Late Middle Ages, namely, the 16th and 17th centuries, in the Priuralsky District. The landmark has 64 burial sites, and experts will be able to learn more about material culture levels of medieval West Siberian residents by studying local funeral rites. 
In late June, another expedition will leave for the Tovygort site, discovered in 2013 in the Shuryshkarsky District. Although its age has not yet been determined, ceramic items found on the site show that the community was established in the Early Iron Age or the first to third centuries AD. 
In 2020-2021, a team of researchers conducted excavation work at the Yorkutinskaya campsite dating to the Eneolithic period or the sixth to fifth centuries BC in the southern section of the Yamal Peninsula. Following archeological reconnaissance, conducted 1,000 meters from the campsite, scientists located five new landmarks dating to approximately the same period. All of them were named the Yorkutinskoye site, and archeologists will study one of them later this year. 
Win-win: Canada and Denmark settle Hans Island dispute 
Denmark and Canada have signed an agreement settling the territorial dispute over the uninhabited Hans Island in the middle of the Kennedy Channel of Nares Strait in the Arctic. 
According to the Foreign Ministry of Denmark, Hans Island in the Kennedy Channel will be split between the Canadian territory of Nunavut and Greenland, which is an autonomous territory of Denmark. 
The agreement on the division of Hans Island was signed in Ottawa by the foreign ministers of Denmark and Canada as well as the Prime Minister of Greenland. Denmark and Canada will now have a land border. 
Danish Foreign Minister Jeppe Kofod noted that the agreement sends a clear signal that border disputes can be resolved in a pragmatic and peaceful manner with a win-win solution for all parties. 
The territorial dispute over Hans Island, an area covering 1.3 sq km, has been going on since 1973, when Denmark and Canada began talks on their maritime border. They put off a decision on the status of the island despite existing territorial claims. 
A humorous tradition developed due to the territorial dispute. During visits to the island, the Danish military would leave a bottle of Danish akvavit (a traditional Scandinavian alcoholic drink) there, while the Canadian military would leave a bottle of Canadian whisky and a sign saying Welcome to Canada.” 
Russian Foreign Ministry: Russia welcomes Arctic cooperation with non-regional countries 
Russia supports the creation of an international partnership in the Arctic with the participation of non-Arctic states. 
We see that the Arctic is opening to the world; more tourists come to the Arctic region from Asian countries, and we welcome this new trend. Russia also welcomes the creation of a broad international partnership with the participation of our respected foreign colleagues from non-Arctic states in the interests of the sustainable development of the Arctic region,” said Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Chair of the Senior Arctic Officials, at the conference International Cooperation for Sustainable Development in the Arctic, which took place as part of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. 
Nikolai Korchunov also noted that the Arctic is becoming a global geopolitical factor. It includes new transport routes that open due to climate change, and Russia is working hard in this direction by developing the Northern Sea Route as an international transit corridor. We are witnessing the increasing economic importance of the region, first of all, in the context of the energy transition, which, as is known, features a growing demand for strategic, crucial commodities that the Arctic has,” the diplomat said. 
He added that since the dialogue with Russia has stopped, the Arctic Council member states have not proposed to create alternative formats because they know that the situation is temporary. 
By the way, none of our colleagues in the Arctic Council has called for creating alternate structures to replace the council. We have not heard about that. Because everyone understands perfectly well that the current situation is only temporary. We hope, or at least assume that sooner or later, the situation will be resolved and we will continue our cooperation,” the diplomat said. 
He added that the Russian team is currently looking for opportunities to implement the instructions given by the ministers at the council’s latest ministerial meeting in Reykjavik. 
According to the diplomat, Russia views the Arctic as a territory of constructive cooperation. At the same time, he said that Russia cannot help but worry about the internationalization of military activity in the Arctic region.” 
But I believe that all countries will have the good sense to wend their way without letting the tensions escalate,” he added. 
Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute: A new flagship is needed for Antarctic program development 
Russia will soon need to replace its research flagship, the Akademik Fyodorov, which is used to implement projects in remote areas of the Arctic and the Antarctic, Alexander Makarov, director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), said at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. 
According to Alexander Makarov, the service life of the vessel, which is now over 30 years old, will last another 5 or 7 years. He noted that now is the time to begin designing a new flagship which will be able to carry out the tasks of Russian research programs in polar regions. 
In order to actively develop our Antarctic program, we need a new vessel, a new flagship. I hope that the government will support us and we will soon begin designing and constructing the new ship,” Makarov said. 
During the event, Rosatom’s special representative for Arctic development, Vladimir Panov, told the audience about the joint investment in the development of the Arctic icebreaker fleet worth some 700 billion rubles. 
A decision was made to build six additional icebreakers. President Vladimir Putin supported the decision, and Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin instructed the government to allocate 143 billion rubles to build two new nuclear icebreakers and a vessel to recharge the icebreakers’ reactors. Rosatom will finance the construction of four more icebreakers,” Panov said. 
Another one of Rosatom’s ambitious projects in the Arctic is the creation of an international transit shipping line. According to Panov, plans call for building a terminal in Murmansk as part of this investment project. 
Head of the Komi Republic proposes reducing the share of companies’ own funds to 10 percent for recognition as an investor in the Russian Arctic zone 
At the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum, head of the Komi Republic, Vladimir Uiba, proposed reducing the share of corporate funds from 15 to 10 percent a company must invest in order to receive investor status in the Russian Arctic zone. According to him, such an improvement would accelerate the mechanism for attracting investors to the Russian Arctic. 
"There are problems with attracting investors to the Arctic. This year we registered 19 investment projects, which is not much. Analysis of the situation has shown that it is necessary to refine the mechanism for supporting Arctic residents, especially since investors from small and medium-sized businesses tend to go to the Arctic. First, it is necessary to simplify the system for attracting borrowed funds, namely by reducing the share of the borrower's own funds in the investment project structure to 10 percent and providing residents with a 100-percent guarantee from a regional guarantee organization and the SME Corporation. Second, exclude irrevocable bank guarantees as the form of collateral for the full loan amount," the Governor suggested during the session Investment projects in the Arctic: Incentive regimes” at The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue booth. 
The head of the Komi Republic also suggested improving the mechanism of grants for organizing events in Russian regions. The tourism promotion program includes the following requirement: the availability of three-star and four-star hotels with more than 2,000 rooms in the region. Meanwhile, the number of hotel rooms in the Komi Republic does not exceed 450. Moreover, it is prohibited by law and generally inexpedient to build large hotel complexes on specially protected natural territories, which attract tourists most of all. Loosening such standards for the regions would allow the Komi Republic to attract investors and receive grants for tourism development. Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov supported those proposals. 
The Russian Arctic zone in the Komi Republic includes Vorkuta, Inta, Usinsk and the Ust-Tsilemsky district. According to a Russian government resolution, a company's own funds must account for at least 15 percent of an investment project’s full cost, which is one of the current criteria for selecting investment projects in the Arctic. 
Federal Agency for Mineral Resources to allocate 2.5 bln rubles to study the Arctic oil and gas shelf 
The All-Russian Research Geological Oil Institute, part of the Federal Agency for Mineral Resources, has announced two tenders worth a total of almost 2.5 billion rubles to study the oil and gas reserves on the Arctic shelf. 
According to the purchase register, the first tender for 1.564 billion rubles will be dedicated to holding comprehensive geological and geophysical works to study the geological structure and oil and gas prospects in the conjunction zone of the Arctic Ocean structures on the Gakkel Ridge and the Nansen Basin with the shelf structures of the Laptev Sea waters.” The area under study covers 203,500 square kilometers. According to the work specification, the completion date is the second quarter of 2024. 
The second tender, worth 918 million rubles, is aimed at studying the geological aspects and assessing the oil and gas prospects of the potential oil/gas bearing region of De Long Islands on the shelf of the East Siberian Sea.” The study area covers 146,500 square kilometers with a maximum depth of no less than 8 kilometers. The project is to be completed by the 4th quarter of 2023. 
The register documents say that the projects will be financed by the federal budget. According to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, the projects will be implemented as part the state program devoted to the restoration and use of natural resources through regional geological studies. 
Norway impounds 20-ton Russian food shipment for Spitsbergen (Svalbard) 
Russian citizens living on the Spitsbergen (Svalbard) Archipelago are facing food shortages following the Norwegian Government’s decision to impound about 20 metric tons of food at the Storskog checkpoint on the Russian-Norwegian border. Official Oslo explains the food blockade by the need to comply with anti-Russia sanctions. 
The Norway-controlled archipelago has a special status, and its territory and coastal waters are a demilitarized zone. Russia has three settlements in Spitsbergen (Svalbard). Barentsburg remains the only inhabited town while the coal-mining towns of Pyramiden and Grumant that thrived in the Soviet era are now deserted. 
Barentsburg has a coal mine, a thermal power plant and a port, as well as a hospital, a kindergarten, a school and a museum. Its 500 residents include miners, teachers and many scientists, including geophysicists, geologists, archeologists, biologists, glaciologists and geographers. 
We are still expecting a reply from the Norwegian Foreign Ministry, and the Russian Embassy in Oslo is monitoring the situation. The Governor of Spitsbergen is saying that the ball is in Oslo’s court: we will receive an exemption for these shipments if Oslo replies positively; the Governor holds little sway in deciding such matters,” said Sergei Gushchin, the Russian Consul General on the archipelago. 
Russia has delivered food to the archipelago by land for decades, that is, from Murmansk to Tromso, Norway, and then to the islands by sea. 
Website to preserve Arctic indigenous languages and cultures developed in Yakutia 
Yakutia is developing an international multicultural website dedicated to the languages, cultures and food heritage of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic. 
Now the website contains encyclopedic information about all 40 indigenous peoples of the Arctic and presents unique materials about 10 indigenous peoples. It does not have full digitalization yet, but work is underway in this direction,” Head of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev said at a session of the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF-2022). 
Initially, the Digitalization of the Linguistic and Cultural Heritage of the Indigenous Peoples of the Arctic project was created as an initiative of Northwestern Federal University and the Government of Yakutia. Later, it was approved as part of the plan for Russia's chairmanship of the Arctic Council. 
Nikolayev said that the work with foreign partners, which started at the Arctic Council, was neglected by some foreign colleagues. In Russia, however, work on this project will continue. 
According to the head of Yakutia, it is time to move from discussing the problem of preserving world languages to creating a multilingual environment for communication in the global digital space. 
I would like to use the occasion of the UN announcing the Decade of Indigenous Languages in 2022 and Russia’s chairmanship in the Arctic Council to pursue a more active policy in the area of linguistic diversity in cyberspace, especially since Russia is one of the leading countries in the world in terms of preserving cultural diversity,” Nikolayev noted. 
Unique recruitment project launched by Arctic regions 
The Arctic Challenge, a unique recruitment project seeking to build a management team of super stars for Russia’s Arctic regions, was launched during the 25th St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. Former and current top managers of commercial companies are welcome to take part. 
The Arctic Challenge was coined to search for and select qualified professionals for further employment in state and municipal management and at core regional production facilities, as well as to improve social mobility. The project was created by the Russian Far East and Arctic Development Corporation in cooperation with the Agency of Strategic Initiatives (ASI), with the support of the Russian Ministry for the Development of the Far East and Arctic. 
The ASI has solid experience in the effective building of a brilliant staffing lineup. I want to ask our distinguished governors and company leaders to support the Arctic Challenge. We have received a great response and want to see job vacancies in public administration and the private sector. I am confident that, together with the ASI, we will build a team of super stars for you. Come to the Arctic. Come to the Barents Sea and other northern seas. We promise it will be more than an act of bravery. It will be incredibly thrilling and fascinating,” said Alexei Chekunkov, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
According to Dmitry Peskov, ASI’s Director for Young Professionals and Special Presidential Representative for Digital and Technological Development, the Arctic Challenge could engage former employees of the Western companies that have left Russia, to deal with staff shortages in the Arctic. He noted that the number of people who want to take a big risk is always significantly higher.” 
We can see how well-established and fully successful managers suddenly change everything. Of course, we can see this huge potential, especially now. It is very important to complete the Arctic Challenge fast, building on the aspirations of former employees of Western companies. Then we will be able to bring the outstanding managers to the Arctic whom we could not have attracted here a few years ago,” Dmitry Peskov commented. 
Nine Arctic regions are already participating in the Arctic Challenge, including the Murmansk Region, the Nenets Autonomous Area, Chukotka, the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, the republics of Komi, Karelia, Yakutia (Sakha), the Arkhangelsk Region and the Krasnoyarsk Territory. A list of 200 open management positions has been compiled, with the help of the regional authorities. 
Candidate selection does not require in-person attendance. They will be selected through a series of public events, as well as group and individual assessments. It is expected that more than 10,000 applicants will be considered. The first job offers will be handed out at the 2022 Eastern Economic Forum, which is to be held on September 5–8 in Vladivostok. 
The North Pole Arctic platform trial cycle near complete 
The North Pole, a new ice-resistant, self-propelled ship/platform, is completing a trial cycle and will soon be carrying out its mission to help develop the Arctic zone. 
The North Pole platform is completing its trial cycle and is preparing to set out for its maiden voyage in the high latitudes” said Dmitry Medvedev, Deputy Chair of the Russian Security Council during his visit to the Admiralty Shipyard in St. Petersburg to see the ship. This expedition is particularly important for our country. The platform will be used to perform major jobs to promote the socioeconomic development of our Arctic zone. We recently looked into this issue at a special Security Council meeting. The sailing of the platform at sea shows yet again that nobody can obstruct, restrict or freeze” our activities in the Arctic no matter how badly our adversaries want it.” 
The creation of a ship like this allows Russia to resume the practice of organizing the 12-month long, year-round North Pole drifting expeditions that were suspended in the early 2000s. 
This ice-resistant and self-propelled platform has a landing pad for helicopters and can operate without the assistance of an icebreaker. The displacement of the North Pole, a unique platform of this kind, exceeds 10,000 metric tons. The station is designed to remain self-sufficient in food for up to 12 months and in fuel for up to two years. The platform is equipped with an onboard research complex consisting of 16 laboratories and a mobile field camp that can be set up on ice floes. The North Pole station staff comprises 34 researchers. 
The Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Roshydromet) and the Admiralty Shipyard signed a contract for the construction of this platform in the spring of 2018, and it was laid down on April 10, 2019. Russian President Vladimir Putin asked the Government to ensure that the construction of the platform was completed, that all tests were carried out and that the North Pole ice-resistant, self-propelled platform was commissioned in 2022. 
Last May, the ship’s sea trials were carried out in the Gulf of Finland. The platform is expected to begin flying its flag in St. Petersburg in July and then it will set out for Murmansk on its first expedition, the beginning of which is scheduled for September this year. The first phase of the expedition will last about six months through February or March, during which specialists will be adjusting and testing the platform’s systems. The second phase is expected to run longer. 
Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic: About 55 ice-class vessels need to be built in Russia 
At least 55 ice-class cargo ships need to be built in Russia by 2030. 
According to Anatoly Bobrakov, the Russian Deputy Minister for the Development of the Far East and Arctic, Northern Sea Route development will serve as a driver for new ship building and maintenance in Russia. 
According to our estimates, we will need to build at least 55 ice-class freighter and tanker ships by 2030. Of course, the fleet will also need support vessels such as icebreakers and rescue ships,” Bobrakov said. 
He noted that Northern Sea Route development would serve as a driver in developing the shipbuilding industry, including maintenance and repairs, in Russia. Cargo volumes on the NSR will reach 80 million tons by 2024 and at least 150 million tons by 2030. 
This is a technical task for all related industries, including shipbuilding and ship repairs and maintenance,” he said. 
We estimated how much this will cost and what it will provide for the economies of both Russia and the Arctic regions specifically. This will mean 35 trillion rubles in GDP growth through 2035, 13 trillion in federal budget revenue, and the transportation of goods worth at least $100 billion. Today we are talking about the Northern Sea Route and Russia’s pivot to the East, but this pivot will primarily take place through the North. This project <...> is a driver for the development of the entire economy of the Russian Federation today,” the Deputy Minister said. 
Bobrakov explained that the industry faces certain challenges right now, including the depreciation of fixed assets and significant import dependence. The possibility of abolishing VAT on ship repairs also being discussed. 
Certain vessels have up to 80 percent foreign components. There are three potential ways to resolve this: We can do it ourselves, we can buy from friendly countries, and we can reverse engineer these components and manufacture everything we are now importing. I am an ardent apologist for the first and third options,” Bobrakov said. 
Chekunkov: Russia's pivot to the East will go through the Arctic 
Russia's turn to the East, much talked about today, will take place through the northern territories, which make a huge contribution to the welfare of the whole country, said Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov at the opening ceremony of the business program at the ministry’s stand, The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue, as part of SPIEF 2022. 
"Today there is a lot of talk about the turn to the East, but if you think about it, this turn will take place through the North. The Arctic already makes a huge contribution to the well-being of our entire country. It includes hydrocarbons of Yamal, fertilizers of the Kola Peninsula, metals of Norilsk and diamonds of Yakutia," said Chekunkov in his welcoming remarks. 
According to the minister, the contribution of the Arctic to the budget and GDP is disproportionate to the actual territory of this difficult and harsh region. 
"And if you look ahead – the projects and investments that have already been made to boost traffic on the Northern Sea Route ... I will name just one figure: in five years, the value of goods that should ship along the Northern Sea Route will be about $100 billion a year. From an economic point of view, the future well-being of Russia depends on the Arctic," stressed the minister. 
He also noted that the Arctic is a complex area in terms of geopolitics. "We see the behavior of our partners in the Arctic Council, who are unilaterally disrupting the dialogue and trying to split the Arctic in two, and the Russian part of the Arctic accounts for half of the global Arctic zone," Chekunov said. 
The minister added that there is still a lot of work ahead to preserve the values of the Arctic and its "heroic past and glorious present," as well as to improve the quality of people’s life in this territory. 
State Commission for Arctic Development to include a scientific and technical council 
A scientific and technical council, which will make it possible to solve research issues in the Russian Arctic zone and introduce new developments quicker, will be created as part of the State Commission for Arctic Development. 
"Today we saw an exhibition which demonstrates the progress in a number of important projects, but this needs to be developed. To this end, we must learn how to work together, learn how to support research and development, to do it faster, with less formalities, red tape and risks. In order to organize this work, we decided today to set up a scientific and technical council as part of the State Commission for Arctic Development," said Yury Trutnev, Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Envoy to the Far East. 
Yury Trutnev held a meeting on using the scientific and technological achievements and human resources of universities and scientific organizations to develop technologies in the Russian Arctic. It was attended by the heads of the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT), Bauman Moscow State Technical University, and the 10 largest Far Eastern and Arctic universities. Before the meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister toured an exhibition of scientific developments for use in the Arctic. 
Linguists compile dictionaries in Yakut language 
A series of science dictionaries in the Yakut language will appear in Yakutia, among them the Russian-Yakut Legal Dictionary: Criminal Law and Procedure Terms, and the Yakut-Russian Glossary (Animal Husbandry). 
Experts from the Yakut Language Department at the Institute of Humanitarian Research and Studies of the Indigenous Peoples of the North, the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, have been working on the dictionaries. 
The books will be designed for a wide audience, of all ages, including the visually impaired. The transition from paper to an electronic format, and the creation of a Yakut speech synthesizer and smart data filter for the 15 volumes of the Yakut language dictionary will make it possible to create website databases, electronic devices and use the real book in an electronic format,” said Nadezhda Danilova, Doctor of Philology, head of the Yakut Language Department. 
The electronic version of the Yakut national dictionary will make it more accessible to a wide audience, from school students and journalists to professional researchers. 
More cutting-edge works will be developed later, in particular, The Organization and Holding of Folklore, Linguistic and Sociolinguistic Expeditions to Monitor the Condition of the Sakha Language, and Monitoring Adherence to the Literary Norms of the Sakha Language in the Media. 
The digitization of the 15-volume Big Explanatory Dictionary of the Yakut Language is also underway. The work on the printed version took 46 years; it was the institute’s largest project. Work on the digital dictionary includes the digitization and creation of an electronic database, the development of software and a synthesizer of standard speech without regional accents. 
The project is part of the program, the Preservation and Development of State and Official Languages in the Republic of Yakutia for 2020-2024. 
My House in the Arctic project receives 100 calls per week 
The government of the Murmansk Region plans to complete the first stage of the My House in the Arctic regional program to subsidize residential housing construction ahead of schedule, within a few months. 
The program was launched in July; the first stage was to last a year during which it was planned to allocate 500 million rubles to provide a lump sum of one million rubles for the construction or purchase of a house or a prefabricated home in the polar regions. However, it seems the money could run out by September because of the popularity of the program. 
We plan to implement this program ahead of schedule, by September. It was launched on July 5, and we already have 20 applicants, those who have provided the complete set of necessary documents. People just began to promptly collect the necessary paperwork. This unique program has turned out to be a sensation,” said Raisa Bondar, general director of the Center for Facilitating Residential Housing Construction in the Murmansk Region, adding that the hotline receives some 100 calls a day from those who want to take part in the program. 
Raisa Bondar noted that almost all categories are eligible for a lump sum of 1 million, but large families have priority and are eligible to receive 1.5 million rubles. 
The program is very flexible now, we have removed all the difficult conditions and left only one prerequisite that people need to have their own land plot and that they do not have a car over 250 hp that is less than two years old. 
Government expands access to concessional loans for investors implementing projects in the Far Eastern Federal District and the Arctic 
Mikhail Mishustin has signed a directive that expands access to concessional loans for investors implementing projects in the Far East and the Arctic. 
It will be easier for entrepreneurs implementing investment projects in the Far East and Russian Arctic zone to get preferential financing. A directive to this effect was signed by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin,” the Government reports. 
This directive includes the suspension of requirements on the total amount of investment and the minimum number of jobs to be created during project implementation. Previously, the development company had to invest at least one billion rubles in a project and create at least 250 jobs to obtain a subsidized loan. This adopted decision will make it possible to reduce the risks associated with the sanctions restrictions. 
Concessional loans can be issued for infrastructure and manufacturing facility projects in a variety of priority sectors including industry, transport, and energy; support will also be available for other new projects in the Advanced Development Territories. 
The rate on concessional loans depends on the Central Bank’s key rate, the Government points out. The mechanism for subsidies effective in the current environment will reduce the rate for businesses by 6.75 percent. Thus, the preferential rate for the above will start at 2 percent annually, says the report. 
North Pole ice-resistant platform to make its first voyage in September 
The North Pole ice-resistant self-propelled platform (ISP) is to depart St. Petersburg for Murmansk on its maiden voyage in September. Murmansk is the point from which the ship will set out on Arctic expeditions. 
On September 1, we want to leave St. Petersburg for Murmansk to be in time for the start of an expedition,” Director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) Alexander Makarov said at a briefing. 
Admiralty Shipyards announced earlier that the ISP had completed the control stage of the builder’s sea trials. 
The station is in fact a research center. The ship was designed for year-round expeditions in the Arctic Ocean. In the past, scientists set up research stations on drifting ice floes to support polar expeditions; 1937 saw the first Soviet disembarkation on ice with a team of polar explorers spending the winter adrift on an ice field. That expedition was also called the North Pole. 
The ISP will be able to sail under its own power at up to 10 knots an hour. The ship can carry enough fuel for about two years of self-contained sailing. The North Pole’s research center will have a modern laboratory and equipment for continuous communications. The ship also has a helicopter landing pad for Mi-8 helicopters. 
Veterinarians rescue a polar bear with a condensed milk tin stuck in its mouth 
A polar bear with a condensed milk tin stuck in its mouth was rescued in the Krasnoyarsk Territory, Svetlana Radionova, head of Rosprirodnadzor (Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources), reported via her Telegram channel. 
We did it! We rescued the polar bear by removing the tin from its mouth in time,” Svetlana Radionova wrote on her Telegram channel. 
A veterinarian removing the tin. 
The day before, seeking help from people, the polar bear reached the village of Dikson in the north of the Krasnoyarsk Territory. The chief veterinarian at the Moscow Zoo flew to Krasnoyarsk to help rescue the animal. 
According to Svetlana Radionova, a special cage has been made to carry the polar bear, after it has received treatment, 60 to 100 kilometers away from the village. 
According to a member of the rescue operation, the polar bear is a young female weighing 80 to 90 kilograms. It has badly injured its tongue, but everything will be fine” after the cuts on its tongue were promptly treated. The polar bear will soon be transported to its natural habitat. 
Arctic Hectare program receives some 4,500 applications in a year 
In its first year, the Arctic Hectare program provided about 2,000 plots of land and has about 600 more agreements to grant land at the signing stage. In total, residents of the Arctic regions have submitted more than 4,500 applications for free land plots. 
"The Murmansk Region continues to receive the most applications for Arctic hectares. A year after the program launched, people have filed 4,500 applications and have already received 2,000 plots, with 600 plots of land at the agreement signing stage. Nearly 400 applications have been submitted by residents of other regions, which became possible on February 1. The key task for us is to integrate the program with other projects, with the Governor's Startup, with the program My Home in the Arctic, and combine it with the development of roadside services and tourism," said Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis. 
The region put a total of 731,000 hectares, or 5.04 percent of its territory, up for grabs under the Arctic Hectare. When allocating the plots, the authorities took due account of the land’s proximity to settlements, as well as the availability of roads or access ways. 
Most applicants are northerners, but on February 1, residents of other regions became eligible to join the program: people from Moscow, St. Petersburg, the Moscow and Leningrad regions and many other Russian regions have already applied for hectares in the Murmansk Region. About 100 applications are filed every month. Nearly 300 people have indicated that they need the land for individual housing construction, gardening or smallholdings. About 40 applicants plan to open a hotel business, and 52 people intend to engage in other types of business. 
Russia set to boost geological exploration on the Arctic and Caspian shelves 
Russia intends to increase geological exploration and the production of hydrocarbon resources on the continental shelf, in the Arctic zone and in the Caspian Sea in light of the new Naval Doctrine of the Russian Federation, which was approved by Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
The document states that these areas should be regulated by the state to ensure Russia's national security. 
The new doctrine proposes eliminating administrative barriers that impede the intensive and safe development of marine natural resources, as well as providing support to Russian exporting enterprises. 
It notes that a modern oil and gas production complex should be built in the Caspian Sea sector, taking into account environmental safety requirements. To do this, Russia should involve domestic companies in geological exploration. Subsequently, new deposits should be included in the subsea pipeline system. 
The doctrine also declares Russia's intention to increase geological exploration to search for cobalt-rich ferromanganese deposits, as well as to build up capacity for the production of liquefied gas and its shipment. 
All these measures should help maintain and increase jobs in the field of maritime activities in the Far East and create comfortable living conditions for the population of coastal areas, the document says. 
Russia and India discuss promoting cooperation in the Arctic 
Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Chair of the Arctic Council’s Senior Arctic Officials, had a meeting with Deputy Foreign Minister of India Sanjay Verma to discuss the prospects for promoting cooperation between the two countries in the Arctic region as part of foreign ministry consultations on the Arctic. 
The meeting covered prospects for promoting Russian-Indian cooperation in high latitudes, both in bilateral and multilateral formats, including at the Arctic Council. Both sides noted the great potential for developing cooperation in the economy, transportation, science and culture, including contacts between regions and civic organizations,” the statement by the Russian Foreign Ministry said. 
The ministry added that the Indian delegation was invited to take part in the Arctic segment of the seventh Eastern Economic Forum in Vladivostok on September 5-8, 2022, where a presentation on the Russian regions’ investment potential will be held. 
Taking part in the consultations were representatives of the Russian Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, Rosatom State Corporation, the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, and the Association of Indigenous Peoples of the Russian North, Siberia and the Far East. 
Almost 80 tons of waste collected and removed from Chukotka 
Volunteers collected about 77 tons of garbage during a large cleanup held in Pevek as part of the Clean Arctic federal project. For two days the project participants, social activists and local residents, employees of city enterprises, as well as representatives of the administration and the family (tribal) community of the Sopka indigenous people of the Chukchi, cleared household and industrial waste from the coastline and the area next to the Orbita gym. 
Heavy equipment came to the rescue, and we were able to remove large objects that were previously inaccessible to volunteers. In two days, four dump trucks of garbage were removed from the spit of the bay, and more than 41 tons of scrap metal and eight dump trucks of garbage were removed from the Orbita gym,” Roman Kopin, Governor of the Chukotka Autonomous Area, said. 
More than 80 people in all joined in, including active citizens, city administration officials and corporate employees. 
The cleanup in Pevek became an excellent example of cooperation between volunteers, authorities, businesses, and locals. It was encouraging to see representatives of small indigenous peoples taking part. It is great that cleanups like this are becoming a regular occurrence in Chukotka, with people forming the good, right habit of keeping their surroundings clean, taking care of them and preventing the emergence of new sources of pollution,” Ruslan Gubaidullin, Chair of Clean Arctic said. 
Since the beginning of the summer, people from Anadyr, Pevek, the villages of Egvekinot, Provideniya, and Ryrkaipy – nearly 300 in total – have taken part in the Chukotka activities under the Clean Arctic federal project. 
Clean Arctic is large project to clear the Arctic territory of waste accumulated since Soviet times. Dmitry Lobusov, captain of the 50 Let Pobedy nuclear icebreaker, and Gennady Antokhin, Soviet and Russian icebreaker captain, Hero of Labor of the Russian Federation came up with the idea. 
Clean Arctic has become a platform that unites public and volunteer organizations, scientists, heads of regions, and businesses. The project is partnered by Norilsk Nickel, Rosatom, PhosAgro, and Russian Railways. 
St. Petersburg to host exhibition and conference on shipbuilding and equipment for shelf development 
On September 13–16, the OMR 2022 International Exhibition and Conference for Shipbuilding and Equipment and Technologies for Development of the Arctic and Continental Shelf will be held as part of the St. Petersburg International Gas Forum. 
During the four-day exhibition, experts will discuss the development of the Northern Sea Route and offshore oil and gas resources in the waters of the Arctic zone, the digitalization of business processes in the Arctic, environmental and industrial safety, marine medicine, and the building of human resources potential in the northern regions. The topic of the plenary session is Strategic goals and priorities of shipbuilding and technical and technological support for the development of oil and gas resources in the Arctic and the continental shelf of the Russian Federation.” 
Also, thematic activities will be held at the event venue and city enterprises. The St. Petersburg Committee for Industrial Policy, Innovation and Trade will hold an Import Substitution Exchange intended for shipbuilding and related industries. 
The Presentation Zone will host seminars and workshops by specialists from leading companies operating in the industry. 
Young specialists will compete in solving cases related to prospecting and exploration of hydrocarbons on the continental shelf, shipbuilding, and marine medicine. 
Participants in technical seminars at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) and the Krylov State Research Center can visit a landscape wind tunnel, a simulator center, stands for static and dynamic structural tests, and also take part in an experiment to study the hydrodynamics of maritime transport and ship ice performance in an ice prototype pool. 
Representatives of the Ministry of Energy, Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and the Arctic, Ministry of Natural Resources, Gazprom, United Shipbuilding Corporation, Gazprom Flot, Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, Russian Maritime Register of Shipping, Atomenergomash, Rubin Central Design Bureau for Marine Engineering, Korall Central Design Bureau, Lazurit Central Design Bureau, Krylov State Research Center, Avangard Moscow Machine Building Plant, Shipbuilding and Ship Repair Technology Center, Central Marine Research and Design Institute and others will make keynote speeches at the event. 
For more information on how to take part in the business program and order invitation tickets to the exhibition, visit www.omr-russia.ru. 
Seismic station installed on Novaya Zemlya for the first time 
A new seismic observation point was installed at the Malye Karmakuly polar station of the Northern Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring Department on Yuzhny Island in the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago. 
The installation of the equipment was carried out by the seismology laboratory of the Laverov Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research of the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences The station has expanded the capacity of the Arkhangelsk seismic network, a unique scientific facility of the Laverov Center. According to Galina Antonovskaya, head of the seismology laboratory, immediately after installation, data from the observation point began to arrive at the laboratory server in Arkhangelsk. 
"Previously, we recorded single earthquakes in the Arctic with the help of stations set up on Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago, Dikson Island and Franz Josef Land Archipelago, but we really lacked a seismological station on the other side of the Kara Sea. Novaya Zemlya is in an important sector from the point of view of observations – it is in the middle of the Barents-Kara region. The station on Novaya Zemlya is really necessary in order to locate more precisely any weak earthquakes occurring on the Arctic shelf, including in the vicinity of the Northern Sea Route. We hope that our observations will now be of an even higher standard," explained Galina Antonovskaya. 
The new station will help track seismic activity along the Northern Sea Route, and find out more about the nature of seismicity in shelf areas. In addition, with the introduction of the new station, scientists hope to clarify the deep structure of the earth’s crust and the upper mantle in the region by creating a velocity model to a depth of 300 km, which will help to specify the Mohorovicic discontinuity (the lower boundary of the crust, which separates the crust from the mantle and is defined by a step-like increase of longitudinal seismic waves), as well as to study the mantle transition zones and correlate the heat flow, seismicity and the deep structure. 
The installed equipment has already recorded several regional earthquakes beside the Spitsbergen (Svalbard) Archipelago and the Arctic range. A number of events are absent in the catalogs of the Russian Academy of Sciences’ unified geophysical service, which confirms the importance of establishing a seismic station. 
The opening of the new station is a result of scientific cooperation between Arkhangelsk-based Laverov Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research of the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences and Moscow’s Geological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
Russia to spend 1.8 trillion rubles on Northern Sea Route development by 2035 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin approved the development plan for the Northern Sea Route until 2035. It includes over 150 measures, with almost 1.8 trillion rubles in funding. 
The government continues to work on creating the infrastructure of the Northern Sea Route, an essential transportation corridor of national and global importance. The directive that approves its development plan until 2035 has been signed by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin,” the document reads. 
The cabinet of ministers noted that the main goals of the work on Northern Sea Route development are to ensure the reliable and safe transportation of goods for people living in the Far North, as well as to create conditions for the implementation of investment projects in the Russian Arctic. 
The measures include the construction of the Utrenny liquefied natural gas and gas condensate terminal, the Bukhta Sever oil loading terminal, and the Yenisei coal terminal. In addition, the plan provides for the construction of coastal and hydraulic structures to support the Baimskoye field, as well as the creation of marine transshipment complexes for liquefied natural gas in the Kamchatka Territory and the Murmansk Region, and a hub port for organizing transit traffic in Vladivostok, the document says. 
There are also plans to build a transportation and logistics hub in the Korsakov sea port on Sakhalin, develop the Murmansk and Arkhangelsk transportation hubs, and build bunkering and maintenance facilities in the ports of Tiksi and Dikson,” the Cabinet added. 
At the same time, the government noted that a separate section of the plan is dedicated to building ships for the icebreaker fleet, including the lead icebreaker of the Leader project, and developing Arctic shipbuilding and ship repair capacities. 
The plan also envisages measures to construct 46 vessels for a rescue fleet and equip the Arctic emergency rescue centers of the Emergencies Ministry with helicopters. 
An Arctic satellite constellation will also be created, which will provide hydrometeorological and navigational support for shipping and help assess climate change,” the document concludes. 
Russian scientists develop solar-powered dirigible for search operations in the Arctic 
Specialists from the Moscow Aviation Institute (MAI) have developed a solar-powered airship which can be used for search operations in the Arctic and other hard-to-reach regions of Russia. 
The Ecodisolar is a solar-powered aircraft that looks like a dirigible. When moving, it uses lift (floating) power, which, unlike conventional drones, saves energy for vertical movements. 
The body of the vehicle is made of durable gas-tight thin elastic materials in the shape of two hemispheres enclosed in a composite hoop, which is filled with helium and nonflammable hydrogen. The vehicle is also unique for its hybrid electric propulsion unit, which MAI specialists developed together with the Baranov Central Institute of Aviation Motors,” noted the press service of the National Technological Initiative (NTI) Platform. 
Unlike typical airships, MAI’s development has a hydroscopic stabilization system, which allows the airship to fly at up to 130 km/h. This aircraft can be used not only for rescue operations, but also for delivering cargo and medicines to regions with difficult terrain, the creators believe. 
"The aircraft can be operated by various rescue services around the clock in difficult weather conditions. Poor visibility or fog is not an obstacle for its operation due to the thermal imaging cameras and acoustic sensors of the monitoring and sensing/echolocation system. Using various communication means, the aircraft (or a cluster of such unmanned aerial vehicles) can transmit images to the operator and rescuers in real time,” the NTI Platform press service quotes Leonid Ponyayev (Ph.D. in Technical Sciences), the project supervisor, as saying. 
The design team presented their development at the Archipelago 2022 Design and Educational Workshop held in July in three Russian cities. The scientists received expert support and access to potential investors. 
PRC Consul General: Russia works hard to promote the Northern Sea Route 
As part of its current Arctic Council chairmanship, Russia works hard to promote the Northern Sea Route, protect the environment and maintain sustainable development in the region, China’s Consul General in Vladivostok, Piao Yangfan, said following the Bering Strait International Festival in Chukotka. 
Global climate change is gaining momentum, causing ice to melt in the polar zone and continuously boosting its strategic, economic, scientific, environmental, transport and resource importance. As the current Arctic Council chair, Russia works hard to promote the Northern Sea Route, protect the environment and maintain sustainable development in the region,” he said. 
In his turn, Nikolai Korchunov, Chair of the Senior Arctic Officials and Ambassador at Large with the Foreign Ministry of Russia, noted that Russia continued to prioritize the need to ensure sustainable socioeconomic development in the Arctic” and to create a comfortable environment for local residents.” 
New Russian Arctic zone residents in Chukotka to invest over three billion rubles in exploration and development of gold and silver deposits 
New residents of the Russian Arctic will engage in a project to explore and develop natural ore, placer and man-made gold and silver deposits in the Arctic zone of the Chukotka Autonomous Area. 
Total investment in the projects under agreements with the Russian Far East and Arctic Development Corporation (FEDC) will exceed three billion rubles, and the money will be used to buy machinery and equipment. About 200 people will get jobs at the new facilities. 
By the end of 2022, the new residents will obtain the necessary licenses and permits. Exploration and development of subsurface resources in Providensky, Iultinsky and Chaunsky Districts will start in 2023. About 400 kilograms of precious metals will be produced by 2027 – each enterprise will produce from 16 to 50 kilograms per year,” said Sergei Kolyadko, Director of Chukotka Advanced Special Economic Zone Management Company LLC (a FEDC affiliate). 
As Sergei Kolyadko explained, tax benefits will help new residents of the Russian Arctic to implement projects within the planned time frame and get the maximum effect from their investments. 
Chukotka is rich in various minerals and ores, so the mining industry is one of the area’s key economic sectors. By creating favorable conditions for investors, we attract more and more investment to the region, thereby improving the living standards of its population,” said Alesya Kalinova, First Deputy Governor, Head of the Finance, Economy and Property Relations Department of the Chukotka Autonomous Area. 
The residents of all preferential treatment regimes in the area invested 66.1 billion rubles in the regional economy, having created more than 2,200 jobs. The number of residents reached 86. 
For investors in the world's largest preferential treatment zone – the Russian Arctic – comfortable conditions have been created to implement business ideas. With investments in the project starting at one million rubles, taxes on property, land and profit will be slashed to zero for five years, 75 percent of insurance premiums for newly-created jobs will be subsidized, and severance tax benefits at 0.5 of the current rate with respect to new deposits will apply for 10 years. FEDC provides comprehensive support to the resident projects at all stages of implementation, and renders a variety of services. The procedure for obtaining Russian Arctic resident status has been made as simple as possible, people can apply for it through the ArcticRussia portal. 
Indigenous peoples of the North to participate in the Eastern Economic Forum 
Leaders of the Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North, Siberia and the Far East will participate in the 7th Eastern Economic Forum (EEF), which will be held from September 5 to 8 in Vladivostok. 
For the first time, a ‘House of Indigenous Peoples’ will be presented at the forum. It will be dedicated to the culture of the indigenous small-numbered peoples of the North and will host several events including the ‘Creative Industries Forum. Socio-cultural Development of the Northern Regions.’ 
Leaders from some 40 indigenous small-numbered peoples will attend the Eastern Economic Forum, which shows the interest of the state, business, and the public in addressing the issues of indigenous peoples of the Russian Federation. Today, the main issues for the indigenous peoples are to preserve tradition, develop the economy and improve the quality of life. <...> I believe that at this session we can find new approaches, new directions and possibilities for development and solutions to the life problems faced in the Arctic region by the indigenous small-numbered peoples of the North, Siberia and the Far East," – said Grigory Ledkov, President of the Association of Indigenous Peoples of the Russian North, Siberia and the Far East. 
The Chukotka Autonomous Area will open a ‘Chukotka for the People’ pavilion at the EEF. Visitors and participants will learn about the peculiarities of the region, the culture, life and traditions of the indigenous peoples of Chukotka, as well as the region’s potential and hear about priority regional projects and local products. 
"The main objective of the exposition is to immerse visitors into an atmosphere where man lives in harmony with the harsh but pristine nature of the Arctic. We will also present the large-scale projects that are being implemented in our region. Traditionally, Chukotka's pavilion is very popular among attendees because our region is unique," said region Governor Roman Kopin. 
The world’s biggest diesel icebreaker gets passenger status 
The Viktor Chernomyrdin, a diesel-electric icebreaker, has been given passenger ship status, which allows it to be used for Arctic cruises, including to the North Pole, when not being used in charter activities. 
The icebreaker can provide comfortable accommodation for about 90 tourists. 
The icebreaker upgrade project was carried out by the Energoeffektivnost designing bureau in St. Petersburg,” the Rosmorport press service reported. 
Most of the upgrades were related to passenger safety in keeping with the Russian Maritime Shipping Register’s regulations and international conventions related to passenger ships. 
The Viktor Chernomyrdin has a total power output of 34.8 MW and is an Icebreaker-8 class icebreaker. It can cut through ice up to 3 meters thick, and can sail at 17.8 knots in open water. The ship can operate up to 60 days without refueling. 
The Viktor Chernomyrdin is designed to provide general icebreaker support, participate in scientific expeditions, accept helicopters, and carry supplies and containers. It has research laboratories, a dynamic positioning system, and comfortable rooms for passengers. 
During ice trials in the Arctic in May 2022, it was confirmed that the icebreaker was able to make steady progress in a 2 meter-thick solid ice field and cut through ice up to 3 meter thick. 
Submarine for the high-latitude Arctic will be stealthier 
Strategic nuclear submarine Arktur, for operation in the Arctic, will be more defficult to detect. This effect will be achieved by the faceted shape of its hull and its shaftless power plant. 
"Arcturus’ new faceted shape together with its reduced size and the prospective active coating, reduces reflected sonar signals and decreases the detection range of the boat. The use of a distributed shaftless power plant, with full electric propulsion, helps reduce noise, and the availability of two propulsion systems increases the maneuverability and reliability of the missile carrier," said a representative of the Rubin design bureau at the Army-2022 exhibition. 
He stressed that stealth will remain the main feature of submarine cruisers, but methods of detecting submarines are constantly developing, which means that ways to ensure stealth also need to change. Reduced noise pollution is leading to active low-frequency systems playing an increasing role in detection. 
"These solutions are also important in terms of Arcturus' most promising application area – the high-latitude Arctic. Interest in this area will only grow in the coming decades. The faceted contours makes it easier to break up ice when surfacing and prevents the ice from lingering on the shaft lids, and better controllability is important for taking a position in the ice clearings," the speaker noted at the end of the report. 
Novaya Zemlya mountain to recover its historical name 
The Russian Arctic National Park and the Northern Fleet of the Russian Federation submitted an initiative to the Arkhangelsk Region Legislative Assembly asking its members to return the historical name – Mount Kruzenshtern – to the highest mountain in Novaya Zemlya Archipelago. 
Commander-in-Chief of the Navy, Admiral Nikolai Yevmenov, has submitted a proposal to the Arkhangelsk Region Legislative Assembly to rename Mount SGE as Mount Kruzenshtern. The country’s Defense Ministry supported this application,” the national park’s press service said in a statement. 
This mountain’s naming history can be traced back to August 1822, when Novaya Zemlya’s highest peak with an altitude of 1,547 meters was named Mount Kruzenshtern. It was President of the Academy of Sciences and founder of the Russian Geographical Society Fyodor Litke who added this mountain to the map and provided its description. However, as time went by this name disappeared from the region’s maps. In 1958, the Arkhangelsk Region government approved a new designation for Novaya Zemlya’s peak by calling it Mount SGE, which is a Russian acronym for the Northern Hydrographic Expedition. However, this name did not stick, and today’s maps only show the mountain’s altitude while omitting its name. 
Over the past five years, the Russian Geographical Society and the Northern Fleet have organized several expeditions to Novaya Zemlya, with several parties scaling the archipelago’s peaks, including the one with an altitude of 1,547 meters. In early August 2022, a group of mountain climbers from the Russian Defense Ministry’s Main Directorate and the Northern Fleet, the National Defense Management Center, Rosatom and the Russian Geographical Society climbed this mountain to install a memorial plate and plant the national flag and St. Andrews Flag of the Russian Navy. 
The Komi Republic holds The Arctic. The Ice Has Broken national forum 
Usinsk in the Komi Republic is hosting The Arctic. The Ice Has Broken national forum-cum-festival attended by volunteers, representatives of environmental organizations and movements, public activists, and university students from all regions of Russia as well as the Donetsk People’s Republic and the Lugansk People’s Republic. 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin hailed the forum participants in his message of greetings. 
I know that you have done much to eliminate the accumulated environmental damage and helped to set in order large territories in Karelia, the Murmansk Region, the Arkhangelsk Region, Chukotka, the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area, and the Krasnoyarsk Territory. You have also brought new soul-mates into the fold. I am convinced that during the forum, you will be able to discuss a broad range of environmental issues, exchange best practices and knowledge, and outline prospects for the future. I would like to thank you for your proactive civic stance and for your striving to take real action and in this way participate in the life of this country,” the presidential message reads, in part. 
The forum will be held from August 16 to 18, with a plenary session in the Q&A format as its lynchpin. A session on Arctic development has also been planned, after which volunteers will brainstorm ideas and solutions of importance for the Arctic territories. 
For a few days, the Arctic city of Usinsk will become a unique venue for a public-business-state dialogue. I am confident that this is a fine opportunity for young people to get to know the Arctic, learn about its potential, and analyze the chances of their own involvement in the development of the Russian North. The Arctic environment needs people, who are ready to act sincerely and with much responsibility for the benefit of nature and the country,” the festival press service quotes Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov as saying. 
The first mobile eye clinic opens in Yakutia 
The first mobile eye clinic started operations at the village of Khatyryk in the Namsky District, Yakutia. In August, its specialists are expected in the Vilyuisky District. Later, visits to the Arctic are planned. 
As of now, they have examined over 100 patients and performed cataract surgery on 36 patients. 
Ophthalmology, the first mobile medical complex, which has been handed over to Yakutia’s Republican Ophthalmological Clinical Hospital, is now operating at the village of Khatyryk, Namsky Ulus, where it will remain until August 21. The local residents can both check their eyesight and receive the whole range of skilled medical assistance, including out-patient laser operations. After August 21, the eye doctors will travel to other districts. In late August, for example, they are expected in the Vilyuisky District. The clinic will also visit Arctic areas. The schedule is being coordinated with central district hospitals,” the press service of the head of the republic reports. 
The clinic’s equipment has been purchased under the Healthy Future project run by the United Russia party. The equipment is installed inside a cross-country multiplex Kamaz van and is intended for use under all climatic and geographical conditions. 
There are three fully equipped consulting rooms inside, which enables both comprehensive eye tests and out-patient surgeries,” a source says. 
It is reported that the Yakutsk eye doctors have engaged in field work on orders from the head of the republic, Aisen Nikolayev, after he received a request for this from a Zhigansky District resident during a live TV meeting. As a result, a team of doctors examined the district’s residents in June. 
Second Arktika-M weather satellite to be launched in 2023 
A group of four weather meteorological satellites Arktika-M will allow Russia to monitor the situation in the Arctic region every 15 minutes and receive up to 2 million detailed images per year. The launch of the second satellite is scheduled for 2023, Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador at Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Chairman of the Committee of Senior Officials of the Arctic Council, said at the Arctic Salon forum in St. Petersburg. 
I would like to mention the first Arktika-M weather satellite among the flagship projects. According to experts, the project allowed Russia to outrank some Western counties in similar developments. Plans call for the second satellite to be launched in 2023. When there are four of them, Russia will be able to monitor the Arctic in good resolution every fifteen minutes and receive up to 2 million images per year,” Korchunov said at the forum’s strategic session devoted to digital transformation. 
The first Arktika-M meteorological satellite was placed into a highly elliptical orbit in February 2021. According to the press service of the Mars design bureau in Moscow, the next Arktika-M satellite will be launched in 2023. There are plans to launch two more satellites of the Arktika-M series by 2025. 
Dates and emphases of the 12th International Forum The Arctic: Today and the Future announced 
St. Petersburg will host the 12th International Forum "The Arctic: Today and the Future" on December 8-9, 2022. Its main theme will be uniting efforts to ensure a sustainable future for the macro-region in a time of global geopolitical and economic change. 
Under the new conditions, synchronizing efforts and strengthening dialogue between all those involved in activities in the region, including within the framework of Russia's chairmanship of the Arctic Council, is of paramount importance for the solution of the tasks at hand. 
"In an unstable world, it is necessary to unite in order to implement the tasks we face in the Arctic. Despite the freezing of cooperation by some Western partners, we are not relinquishing these tasks. I believe that non-governmental scientific and youth cooperation in the social dimension must be maintained regardless of relations between countries. There are still many people and organizations in the West who care about the Arctic and want to continue cooperation despite the position of their governments. In addition, there are many non-regional states that are willing to get involved in Arctic projects. The Arctic: Today and the Future Forum is a proven tool of public diplomacy on the Arctic projects," – said President of the Association of Polar Explorers, Russian Special Presidential Representative for International Cooperation in the Arctic and Antarctic, and State Duma Deputy Artur Chilingarov. 
The program of the meeting will be structured so that every discussion platform will be able to provide answers to fundamental questions of the Arctic’s modern development. The emphasis of the forum's business program in 2022 will be on responsible management under the new conditions, a search for solutions to remove the restrictions that have arisen due to sanctions, adapting to climate change, developing human capital in the Arctic, establishing an international public dialogue, and involving all Russian regions in the implementation of Arctic projects. 
Two science centers plan geophysical research in the Arctic 
Novosibirsk State University (NSU) and the Chukotka Arctic Research Center will implement geological and geophysical research projects in the Arctic and the Far North after signing cooperation agreements during the Technoprom-2022 forum. 
In fact, Chukotka now has a new scientific research center. <... > It is in the Arctic, and our university has extensive geological and geophysical Arctic research projects, and a joint station on Samoylovsky Island. Therefore, we need to advance geological and geophysical research and personnel training,” NSU Rector Mikhail Fedoruk said. 
The agreement also provides for environmental and climate research, and the development of biomedical and agricultural technologies for use in the Far North and the Arctic. Other projects will involve geographic information systems (GIS), artificial intelligence and smart city solutions. 
The 9th International Forum Technoprom is taking place in Novosibirsk from August 23 to 26. The purpose of the annual forum is to promote Russian scientific research projects and innovations. In 2022, the theme of the forum was Russia’s Technological Sovereignty and Sustainable Development. The participants will discuss nuclear technologies, biological, agricultural and information security, energy and medicine. 
World’s first Arctic sorting station to be built in the Murmansk Region 
The world’s first Arctic sorting terminal will be built on a testing site of the Oktyabrskaya Railway in Shongui, Murmansk Region. The terminal will mainly process coal, iron-ore concentrate, fertilizers and goods in transit from China to Western Europe. 
Construction will starts in 2025 and is expected to take five years. The infrastructure in Shongui will be designed based on the solutions that were used in the construction of the Luzhskaya-Sortirovochnaya station that serves Ust-Luga, Russia’s largest Baltic Sea port. 
The project is an essential part of the renovation of the Murmansk Transport Hub. Once put in operation, a sorting station processing primarily transit and export cargo will significantly boost the volume of railway shipments to the Murmansk Sea Port and the port of Lavna. 
It was initially expected that the upgraded Murmansk Transport Hub would process at least 45 million tons of cargo per year and optimistically, 55, 75 or even 100 million tons per year. Railway operators believe that the new sorting capacities will allow the hub to reach its maximum potential. 
Removing bottlenecks at the Murmansk Transport Hub will also stimulate higher cargo turnover on the Northern Sea Route. Access to the Arctic waters and further to the Northern Sea Route is one of the Murmansk hub’s competitive advantages. Expanding transit and domestic cargo operations on the Northern Sea Route will subsequently require the construction of new high-capacity terminals in the western sector of the Russian Arctic, the Murmansk Transport Hub naturally becoming one of them. 
TSU scientists: Grass grows in the Arctic more often than reindeer moss 
Recently, reindeer have started to eat grass more often than moss. The warming is one of the reasons for this change, reports the Press Service of the Tomsk State University (TSU). 
Many experts note that the Arctic is becoming greener” due to the growth of grass. It partially replaces reindeer moss that has faced tangible problems in the past few years. However, these problems tended to arise because of overgrazing rather than due to natural causes. Reindeer moss in the tundra doesn’t have time to recover and reindeer have to adapt themselves to new food,” said TSU SecNet Coordinator Olga Shaduiko. 
TSU experts are citing a survey involving indigenous people who note several climatic factors – more precipitation, lower water level in rivers and reduced fish catch. They also point out that now autumn and spring are much more pronounced whereas before, these seasons were very short – sometimes there were just a few days between summer and winter. 
This change is creating difficulties for reindeer breeders. In spring, during reindeer migration from wintering grounds to summer pastures, animals have to overcome thawed water barriers more frequently, because of early warming. If does start calving on the way, before reaching pastures, newborn calves are more likely to die,” notes the report. 
The results of the survey also show that the indigenous people would like to receive more support from the authorities in resolving socioeconomic problems. 
We want to collect many observations that will allow us to assess ongoing changes objectively, analyze them and make forecasts for the future. We have been engaged in this research for about a decade now and many predictions have already come true,” Shaduiko said. 
According to earlier reports, during their research TSU experts found out that indigenous peoples of Siberia and the North – Selkups, Nenets and Khantys – have started eating less venison and other traditional food, and more condensed milk, which is negatively affecting their health. 
EEF 2022 to focus on economic development, creative industries and healthcare in the Arctic 
The 7th Eastern Economic Forum, to be held on September 5-8 in Vladivostok, will serve as a platform for the events scheduled as part of Russia’s presidency in the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. 
Holding events that revolve around the Arctic agenda at such an important communications platform as the Eastern Economic Forum will draw additional attention to the challenges of and prospects for the Extreme North. Leading experts and professionals will discuss economic development in the Arctic zone, and international cooperation and the gradual development of creative industries in the North. Russia held several events as part of its Arctic Council presidency during the SPIEF 2022, demonstrating that Arctic development is a highly relevant discussion,” Russian Presidential Advisor Anton Kobyakov said. 
Several events to be held during the EEF 2022 will be related to Russia’s presidency in the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. One is Investment and Trade in the Arctic, a conference and business breakfast that will focus on the operation of Far Eastern preferential regimes (priority development areas and the Free Port of Vladivostok) and the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation, a special regime created for the Extreme North. Experts representing major Russian companies and related government bodies will discuss the prospects for Russian cooperation with its foreign partners in the Arctic and the possibilities for the development of the Northern Sea Route while building new logistics chains. 
Developing Far Eastern and Arctic territories is impossible without entrepreneurship and direct coordination between companies, the government and other business organizations. The Russian Arctic Zone benefits from an entire package of support measures offered by the government, primarily preferential regimes, or support programs. The new challenge is the development of the Northern Sea Route and the successful integration of this route with global logistics chains. It is thanks to productive cooperation between the state and the business community that we will be able to achieve the declared goal of increasing cargo traffic along the Northern Sea Route,” Russian Minister for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic Alexei Chekunkov explained. 
One of the key events on the EEF 2022 Arctic agenda will be a meeting of the Arctic Economic Council where Russia is also presiding in 2021-2023. The council is an independent international organization for business development and B2B cooperation in the Arctic, as well as for facilitating responsible economic development by scaling up best practices, technology solutions and standards, sharing experience, and building partnerships. At an expanded meeting of the Russian national chapter, the Arctic Economic Council plans to discuss major areas of cooperation with its Asian partners, including the development of cargo shipment along the Northern Sea Route, energy and mineral production. 
Additionally, a forum of creative businesses, focused on the sociocultural development of the northern regions, will be held during EEF 2022. Initiated by Russia’s Arctic Council presidency, the forum will offer a business program for the northern regions’ social and cultural development that will focus on opportunities for creative industries and social sector in northern territories. Forum participants will discuss the special features of developing northern cities, industrial design in the Arctic, the indigenous peoples’ customs and traditions, tourism, the impact of technology on life in the north, the local film and animation industry, traditional cuisine, and building local art centers and hubs. The social section will include sessions on supporting youth and the small-numbered indigenous peoples. Several events are planned as part of the EEF 2022 business program. Non-business events will be held in the Indigenous Peoples’ Pavilion at the Far Eastern Street exhibition, a new event dedicated to indigenous cultures. The forum is organized by Innosocium Foundation, the social platform of the Roscongress Foundation. 
A youth multimedia discussion campus, The Russian Soul. North, will gather in the Lounge pavilion at the Far Eastern Street exhibition as part of the creative business forum. An audiovisual cultural festival, also titled The Russian Soul. North, will also take place. EEF participants and young attendees will learn about the northern regions’ achievements, centuries-old customs, traditions, culture and the mythology of the northern indigenous peoples in modern interpretations by both aspiring performers and acclaimed artists. 
The general priority of our presidency in the Arctic Council in 2021-2023 is ensuring responsible management for the region’s sustainable development with balanced environmental, social and economic dimensions. I am certain that holding events on a wide range of Arctic issues during EEF 2022 will help us achieve this goal,” noted Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Chair of the Senior Officials’ Committee of the Arctic Council. 
Arctic issues will also be discussed in sessions of the Russia-chaired Think Arctic – Think Global. The session called The Eastern Dimension of International Cooperation in the Arctic will focus on building flexible cooperation formats in the region. The emergence of a substantial number of growth centers on the global political map, with different IT and economic potential, creates additional requirements for the major players involved in maintaining steady links in the Arctic region. 
Russia - India: Arctic Exploration Fairway is a session dedicated to positioning and considering India’s interests in the region in view of its distant location from the Arctic region. Cooperation opportunities raise many questions and create a topical international discussion in a new economic reality. A review of the two sessions will be included in an analytical report on international cooperation in sustainable development between Russia and Arctic and non-Arctic states. 
Global Times: US brings conflicts to a peaceful North Pole 
The Arctic will become an area for global rivalry in the future. Inflating China and Russia's alleged threats is a distortion of China's Arctic policy, and it aims to contain Russia under the excuse of security, China’s state-owned Global Times writes. 
Earlier, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg noted that Russian-Chinese cooperation in the north did not meet the interests of the NATO countries, and that the alliance was expanding its regional presence in this connection. Stoltenberg explained that Russia’s capabilities in the north presented a strategic challenge to NATO. He added that, by declaring itself a near-Arctic state, China was also becoming more interested in the Arctic because the region is growing into a more significant shipping corridor due to climate change. 
Last week in Canada, Stoltenberg said Beijing and Moscow had also agreed to expand their practical activities in the Arctic. He noted that this was part of a deeper strategic partnership that challenged NATO’s values and interests. 
The writer added that some Chinese analysts expect the Arctic to become a region of global rivalry in the future, and that this explained more active US efforts to improve coordination with its allies in the region and in the context of its military rivalry with Russia. 
Nevertheless, inflating China and Russia's presence is part of the US-led West's ill-intentioned attempts to place China and Russia together as a strategic threat, to influence the Arctic states with this image. But this is a distortion of China's Arctic policy and it aims to contain Russia using security as an excuse.” 
Unlike the US bringing more conflicts to different parts of the world, even to the peaceful Arctic, and intensifying confrontations among major powers, China, as a "near-Arctic state," aims to safeguard the common interests of all countries and the international community in the Arctic and promote sustainable development,” the article notes. 
A changing Arctic will certainly affect the geopolitical landscape because it will become a new point of rivalry among major powers in the future,” Cui Hongjian, Director of the Department of European Studies at the China Institute of International Studies, told the Global Times. 
Washington's top priority for this region now is how to respond to Moscow’s increasing activities in the region. In addition to a military presence, taking control of future shipping routes in the region will also become a major focus, he added. 
In particular, after Sweden and Finland join NATO, Russia will face certain restrictions on its waterway to the Baltic Sea, Cui said, noting that seeking more waterways in the Far North would be strategically important for Moscow. 
Finland and Sweden joining NATO could be seen as part of NATO's intention to focus on Arctic-related affairs,” Wang Yiwei, director of the Institute of International Affairs at Renmin University of China, told the Global Times. 
Establishing a new position in the USA, ambassador-at-large for the Arctic (as the US State Department has announced), will help the US, enhance its coordination with its allies and set up rules while containing Russia's military buildup using security as an excuse once again, Wang said. 
Earlier, Diane Francis, a Nonresident Senior Fellow at the Atlantic Council's Eurasia Center, told media outlets that Russia was too active in developing the Arctic and in expanding production of its mineral resources from the Arctic Ocean seabed. According to the US analyst, Moscow has presented extreme territorial claims and has begun aggressively prospecting for oil in the region. 
Peskov: Statements on NATO’s Arctic presence show desire to confront Russia 
Russia perceives the recent statement by NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg on the need to expand the Alliance’s Arctic presence as an intention to confront it in this region, said Presidential Spokesman Dmitry Peskov. 
We perceive these statements as an intention to confront Russia and Russian interests in the Arctic; Russia will safeguard its interests as it sees fit,” he noted. 
Peskov noted that Russia viewed the Arctic as a zone of economic activities and efforts to ensure its security. 
This is a sphere of our vital interests,” Peskov added. 
According to Peskov, Russia’s interaction with other countries in the Arctic, including that with China, solely aims to further develop the Arctic zone; it does not and cannot threaten any other country or association. 
Last week, Stoltenberg said NATO had to maintain a strong presence in the Arctic region. In his opinion, Russia’s capabilities in the North present a strategic challenge to NATO, including due to the significant Russian military buildup, with new bases and a new weapons system. 
Northern Fleet conducts drills on Laptev Sea islands 
The ships Admiral Levchenko and Alexander Otrakovsky from the Northern Fleet’s Arctic group and a tactical unit on Kotelny Island, part of the New Siberian Islands archipelago in the Laptev Sea, conducted an exercise and practiced defensive operations in the Arctic zone. 
Crews of the anti-submarine warfare ship Admiral Levchenko and the amphibious landing ship Alexander Otrakovsky from the Northern Fleet’s Arctic group and the personnel of a tactical unit on Kotelny Island practiced joint defensive operations in the Arctic zone,” the fleet’s press service said. 
During the exercise, the Northern Fleet’s sailors unloaded military equipment on the island’s unprepared shoreline and deployed Bastion coastal defense missile launchers against naval targets. The ships conducted tactical operations to defend Arctic shipping lanes. 
According to the press service, the ships from the Northern Fleet’s Arctic group are replenishing their stores in Temp Bay near Kotelny Island in the Laptev Sea. After that, the anti-submarine warfare ship Admiral Levchenko and the amphibious landing ship Alexander Otrakovsky, as well as the sea-going tanker Sergei Osipov, will continue to operate on the Northern Sea Route. 
The Northern Fleet’s surface ships set sail on August 10 from Severomorsk, the main fleet base. During their voyage, the fleet’s warships and supply ships have already sailed about 6,000 nautical miles. Apart from the above-mentioned three ships, the fleet’s Arctic group includes the rescue tug Pamir. 
Scientists in Yamal to revive agriculture of the small indigenous peoples of the North 
Scientists from the Scientific Center for Arctic Studies in Yamal will revive the agricultural practices of the small indigenous peoples of the North. As part of the Center’s expedition, Leading Research Fellow Yevgenia Morgun and Research Fellow Ruslan Ilyasov will study the topsoil and vegetation of farming ecosystems – fields and kitchen gardens – at the villages of Krasnoselkup, Tolka, and Ratta, as well as background soils at the Upper Taz Nature Reserve and the sacred site of Mount Shaman. 
Following the expedition, the scientists will provide an agricultural and environmental assessment of the territory. Their research is aimed at solving practical problems related to polar agriculture, the food security of the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area, and self-employment of local residents. 
From the point of view of soil scientists, the Krasnoselkup District is an unexplored white spot. Our field group is to collect data on the condition of the soils and vegetation. We will also study the agricultural practices of the northern Selkups and compare them with those used in other municipalities. In the mid-20th century, the small indigenous peoples of the North engaged in a rather well developed polar agriculture. Today, certain practices have been partially lost. Our task as scientists is to revive and transmit them to the population,” Yevgeniya Morgun said. 
The Center is planning to publish a monograph formulating new scientific and methodological approaches to the development of agriculture, based on the historically existing agricultural practices of the small indigenous peoples of the North. 
The Yamal scientists already studied soil and vegetation samples from the Krasnoselkup District in 2019, as part of the project to monitor ancestral habitats of the small indigenous peoples of the North. The results showed that the soil possessed the necessary fertile properties. The specific conditions of the northern taiga and the hydrothermal regime make it possible to develop polar agriculture in this territory. Studies conducted from 2015 to 2020 covered farming ecosystems in the Yamal, Shuryshkar, Nadym, and Priuralsky districts. Background soils were explored outside populated localities. According to experts, the Arctic region has the potential to provide its residents with locally-grown organic food. 
Arctic Schools: Murmansk Region upgrades 100 school and kindergarten facilities 
Authorities in the Murmansk Region have completed most of the work to upgrade school properties under the Arctic Schools program. In all, 13 gyms, 11 canteens, 19 public spaces, 18 classrooms and four greenhouses got upgrades. 
According to Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis, greenhouse construction and renovation projects received funding in 2022 for the first time. In the past, this practice was widespread at local secondary education institutions. This year, 35 kindergartens joined the Arctic Schools program for the first time and were also renovated. 
In 2022, we invested over 263 million rubles in renovating 100 properties. The Arctic Schools project provides a good opportunity for educational institutions to be upgraded, apart from other programs that we finance. Since its inception two years ago, 98 schools in the Murmansk Region, or 61 percent, have joined it,” the governor said. 
He also noted that some schools had already received a second updated space under the regional program. 
It is important that the project provides young Northerners with modern infrastructure and new opportunities for self-development,” Andrei Chibis said in conclusion. 
Schools and kindergartens are getting new updated spaces under the Living in the North strategic development plan for the Murmansk Region. 
Yakutia creates NFT reindeer to help reindeer herders 
An NFT collection of eight digital reindeer has been released under the Digital Reindeer Herder project. The curator of the project is the Kyndykan creative association together with the 3D sculptor Nyurgun Ogotoev. 
The new collection came about as a way to financially support reindeer herding communities.The project allows users to purchase an NFT avatar, which is attached” to a real reindeer from the herd. According to the idea of the project initiators, users can watch the animal with a GPS tracker. In addition, they can buy and give gifts to such a reindeer, as well as improve the reindeer’s skills. 
In this way, it will be a kind of Tamagotchi, the cost of which ranges from $1,000 to $3,000. It is not yet clear whether anyone has become the lucky owner of a digital reindeer. 
According to the Kyndykan team and Margarita Popova, the project developer, the digitalization of nomad camps will take the brand of nomadic peoples to a new cultural level. The project will also popularize the culture of the indigenous peoples of the North through modern technology, such as virtual reality. 
An NFT (non-fungible token) is a unit of record used to create a digital footprint of any unique item. These assets can include paintings, photos, videos, music and GIFs – content that has at least some uniqueness. They are of a great value among collectors, gamers and art lovers. 
Chinese Foreign Ministry: NATO irresponsibly states that Russian-Chinese cooperation challenges its interests 
Citing Dmitry Peskov, Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Zhao Lijian said he shared his views on NATO’s irresponsible statements on Russian-Chinese cooperation in the Arctic challenging the alliance’s system of values and interests. In his words, this exposes NATO’s attempts to export Cold War mentality by resuming the confrontation between blocs. 
The diplomat said that NATO should immediately abandon this dangerous mentality that only confuses the world. 
Zhao Lijian also said that China respects the sovereignty of the Arctic countries, their sovereign rights and jurisdiction in this region, and that it always adheres to the principles of respect, cooperation, and mutually beneficial and sustainable development when cooperating with all parties in the Arctic. Moreover, China is committed to protecting the environment and facilitating sustainable development in the Arctic. 
Previously, NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg said Russian-Chinese cooperation in the Extreme North did not meet the interests of the NATO countries, and therefore the alliance was going to beef up its presence in the region. In response, Russian President’s Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov said that Russia perceives the NATO Secretary-General’s statements negatively because the Arctic is a zone of Russia’s economic activity, and interaction with other countries, including the People’s Republic of China, is aimed at developing the Arctic zone and does not pose a threat to any other country or association. He emphasized that the Kremlin sees these statements as a manifestation of intentions to counter Russia’s interests in the Arctic. 
Murmansk Region Governor announces a new gas distribution system for the Polar area 
Gazprom has begun developing a new gas distribution system for the Murmansk Region, which will give new impetus to the development of the regional economy. 
A gas supply system is an important priority for the development of the Murmansk Region. This project will give new impetus to economic development, launch the deep processing of extracted natural resources, and reduce people’s heating costs. Gazprom has begun designing it,” said Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis. 
Following a meeting with Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller, Andrei Chibis said public gas distribution in the region would improve the competitiveness of local businesses, justify the full cycle of mineral processing, create about 20,000 new jobs, attract about 400 billion rubles of investment, and eliminate the use of fuels that have a negative impact on the environment such as coal and fuel oil. 
In June, at a meeting with the head of state, Chibis asked for support in developing a public gas distribution network in the region, which is currently dependent on fuel oil. He noted that according to the official decision, construction of a gas main from Volkhov in the Leningrad Region to Murmansk (1367 km) was considered feasible. Chibis stressed that the gas supply system would allow the region to reduce utility rates by up to 30 percent. 
Sergei Ivanov calls for strict environmental regulations for vessels navigating the Northern Sea Route 
Environmental regulations must be as strict as possible to minimize threats to the Arctic environment, said Special Presidential Representative for Environmental Protection, Ecology and Transport Sergei Ivanov. 
The Arctic is very fragile, more fragile than the waters of other seas and oceans. If, God forbid, something like an oil spill happens, Russia will have to clean up the aftermath, not the country whose tanker had the spill, and second, we need to have all the necessary rescue equipment, which is another task for the future,” Ivanov said. He emphasized that the Russian Emergencies Ministry would also have to reach the Arctic coast to perform emergency response actions in a very short time frame. 
Ivanov believes that environmental regulations must be as strict as possible. 
Not a single vessel, even a warship, can sail along the Northern Sea Route. We have already dealt with naval vessels by developing a legislative framework that regulates the navigation of foreign naval vessels on the Northern Sea Route, but we are still working to do the same for civilian ships,” the special presidential representative added. 
According to Ivanov, the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is handling this issue and will develop strict regulations to prevent various environmental problems. 
Murmansk forum on the sustainable development of Russia’s indigenous peoples 
On October 9-12, Murmansk will host the international forum, Public-Private Partnership in the Sustainable Development of the Indigenous Peoples. Forum participants will discuss the sustainable development of Russia’s indigenous small-numbered peoples, as well as state regulation and businesses’ role in this work. 
The cultural diversity of the Russian people is among the main values of this country. The sustainable development of Russia’s human capital is closely linked with the social responsibility of business; and comprehensive cooperation between the state and private companies is a key aspect in this area. I am confident that the forum participants will be able to fully discuss the plans for expanded interaction between the state and businesses and will develop proposals that can allow us to upgrade current regulatory practices,” said Presidential Adviser Anton Kobyakov, Executive Secretary of the Organizing Committee to Prepare for and Facilitate Russia’s Arctic Council Presidency in 2021-2023. 
Forum participants will review corporate strategies’ standards and business policies in relations with the indigenous peoples. They will draft projects and programs for their development including various systems for consultation and agreements between parties, state regulation approaches, and including the indigenous peoples in the decision-making process. 
The forum’s goals coincide with the national and international agendas, the priorities of the indigenous peoples, and the objectives of ensuring the country’s socio-economic development, including the operation of vital economic sectors,” Igor Barinov, Head of the Federal Agency for Ethnic Affairs, noted. 
The event will include representatives from the ministries and agencies in the regions inhabited by indigenous peoples, NGO experts who specialize in sustainable development and upholding human rights and the rights of the indigenous peoples, multilateral development institutions, industrial companies operating in areas where the indigenous peoples traditionally live, and business community associations. 
The forum’s business program includes a plenary meeting, five panel sessions and roundtable discussions to discuss various aspects of the sustainable development of Russia’s indigenous peoples, as well as their relations with industrial companies and government agencies. 
The participants will evaluate opportunities for creating a national standard for the sustainable development of Russia’s indigenous small-numbered peoples and for guaranteeing their rights in relation to economic development. At the end of the forum, they will hold a round of consultations to find effective approaches for streamlining relations between businesses and the indigenous peoples and for forging the expert potential in this field. 
The forum will take place under a plan of Russia’s Arctic Council presidency. Any participants wishing to obtain additional information or to register can go to the official website: https://forum-murmansk2022.ru. 
North Pole ice-resistant platform arrives at North Pole 41 expedition’s starting point 
The North Pole ice-resistant platform arrived at Murmansk seaport from where the North Pole 41 expedition will set sail. The ship will head for the Central Arctic region, and the 41st drifting polar station will start operating in early October. 
The platform successfully traveled the first leg from St. Petersburg to Murmansk and performed well. Doubtless, it has a great future ahead. The North Pole ice-resistant platform will soon sail for the high latitudes, and it will achieve impressive results. The program of drifting polar stations ended ten years ago due to melting Arctic sea-formations, caused by global warming. We are now resuming these expeditions. Scientists have received a unique tool making it possible to resume regular research projects in Arctic latitudes and to elevate them to an entirely new level,” said Alexander Makarov, Director of the Shirshov Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute. 
The self-propelled North Pole platform can sail to any preset area, stick to an ice floe and help deploy a research base. It can act as a real floating scientific research center. Scientists now can use 15 laboratories for conducting the entire range of Arctic research, including sea-ice studies and space observations. 
The ship has a custom-built hull with a unique shape that redistributes ice pressure accordingly and squeezes the platform onto an ice floe. The hull accommodates as much equipment and supplies as possible, for a two-year expedition. Specialists conducted numerous tests at an ice-filled test tank at the Shirshov Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute while developing the hull. 
The port of Murmansk will build a terminal for cargo from Belarus 
The Republic of Belarus and the Government of the Murmansk Region have signed a cooperation agreement. Under the document, a new terminal for transshipment of Belarusian cargo in Murmansk, which is planned to be built on the west coast of the Kola Bay in the port of Lavna, will be able to handle from five to seven million tons of cargo per year. 
"At a meeting with President of Belarus Alexander Lukashenko, the final decision to transship Belarusian export cargo through the port of Murmansk has been made. This is a very important decision, and a new terminal with a capacity of five to seven million tons of cargo per year on the west coast of the Kola Bay is planned for this purpose," said Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis. 
The decision was made because of the Western sanctions: for the former Soviet republic, which has no access to the sea, the issue of exporting goods, primarily potash fertilizer, has become acute. Some of the goods will be shipped through St. Petersburg, but the choice of the Northern Capital as a hub does not resolve the problem completely: sending cargo to Asian consumers may be more cost-effective if the Northern Sea Route is used and, therefore, if the cargo is transshipped through the port of Murmansk. 
Yamal proposes improving law on waste disposal in the Arctic 
The Federation Council discussed proposals of the Russian Arctic regions on simplifying the legal procedure for removing environmental damage in the Arctic. During the meeting, Alexander Mazharov, Deputy Governor and Director of the External Relations Department of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, drew attention to some problems in current legislation that hinder implementation of environmental projects in the Arctic. 
"Yamal has a wealth of experience in organizing and conducting environmental expeditions. We started cleaning hard-to-reach Arctic territories 10 years ago, being one of the first in Russia. Over this period volunteers have collected and prepared for removal tons of scrap metal and other waste, eliminated the consequences of residential and industrial development. But, as it turned out, it is easier to organize work of volunteers on hard-to-reach islands than to carry out these works within the legal framework", Alexander Mazharov said at the meeting. 
According to him, in order to eliminate an object of accumulated damage, it is necessary now to enter it in the state register in conformity with the categorization system. If the categorization results show that the object has a low value, funding for its removal is not provided. There are also difficulties with the removal and disposal of scrap metal collected from ownerless dumps at the sites of former bases, scientific and hydrometeorological stations or exploration sites. 
In this regard, Yamal proposes a special procedure for the removal of objects of accumulated environmental damage in the Arctic, including establishment of an extrajudicial procedure for declaring waste dumps of hazard class V ownerless, assignment of responsibility for maintaining the register of such objects to the local departments of natural resources regulation, as well as the possibility of removing objects of accumulated environmental damage by any entity, including without compensation. 
Amendments to federal legislation will make it possible to fully ensure the removal of objects of accumulated environmental damage in the Arctic and simplify interaction with supervisory authorities on issues related to the removal and disposal of waste collected in course of environmental cleanup. 
Northern Fleet completes exercises on protecting the Russian Arctic and Northern Sea Route 
About 30 ships and vessels from the Northern Fleet (NF) took part in exercises to ensure security in the near maritime zone and along the Northern Sea Route (NSR). 
"The Northern Fleet held command and staff exercises to manage the forces and troops of the Kola Flotilla diverse forces in protecting the sovereignty of the Russian Federation in the near sea zone and in the waters of the Northern Sea Route. The exercise was led by Northern Fleet commander Admiral Alexander Moiseyev. It involved up to 1,500 people, about 60 units of military and special equipment, eight aircraft and up to 30 ships and support vessels," the Northern Fleet press service reported. 
The exercises were used to assess the level of preparedness of the Northern Fleet military command in planning and conducting actions to resolve crisis situations in the Arctic Ocean area and troop command and control as part of the defense of the Russian Arctic territories, to ensure military security and maritime economic activity of the Russian Federation in the Arctic. 
As part of the exercises, the ship groups of the Kola Flotilla diverse forces practiced their drills in the Barents Sea and the Laptev Sea while the coastal missile unit practiced from the Bastion and Bal coastal missile complexes on the Sredny and Rybachy peninsulas. 
Northern Fleet Arctic Group ships, which operate in the Laptev Sea under Northern Fleet Deputy Commander Vice-Admiral Oleg Golubev, conducted a series of ship-based exercises in areas near the Northern Sea Route. The exercises were aimed at ensuring security for Russia's maritime and economic activities in the Arctic. 
Northernmost Danish island turns out to be a dirty iceberg 
Danish and Swiss surveyors have uncovered the mystery of the northernmost island of Greenland, Qeqertaq Avannarleq. It turned out not to be an island but a large, grounded iceberg. 
A small island – 30 by 60 meters – was found in July 2021 off the northern coast of Greenland beyond the Arctic Circle. Its discoverers took it for a full-fledged island and called it the northernmost point of land – Qeqertaq Avannarleq – which means the northernmost island” in Greenlandic. 
The discoverers were misled by the fact that the iceberg was covered with gravel, which is why it resembled dry land. According to scientists’ latest research, the iceberg probably calved off a nearby glacier. It was covered with gravel due to landslides, as a result of which huge chunks of ice broke away from the parent body. 
Importantly, the title of the northernmost land has been rightfully returned to Kaffeklubben Island (Coffee Club Island). It was discovered to the east of Cape Morris-Jesup on the northernmost tip of Greenland at the beginning of the last century. 
Programmers from Yakutia to develop a marketplace for products of indigenous peoples of the North 
Programmers from the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) will create a digital trading platform that will enable the small-numbered indigenous peoples of the North to sell traditional folk crafts products online. 
According to Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov the project will be supported at the federal level. The funds will be allocated under the state program for the development of the Arctic, which implies a systemic support of indigenous peoples. 
"It was agreed that a digital platform [will be created] for small-numbered indigenous peoples. <...> This should be a digital platform where anyone from around the world [could] not only look at and learn about these [products], but also, for example, purchase any of these artifacts that people traditionally make by hand. <...> IT specialists from Yakutia will create such a platform," said Alexei Chekunkov. 
The Minister learned about the projects of Yakutian IT specialists back in August, when he visited the region together with Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin. 
"They make good modern platforms. I would say this: traditionally Tatarstan has stood out as an IT giant. Yakutia is starting to snap at their heels," he added. 
Currently, the Russian Arctic zone, Siberia and the Far East are inhabited by 47 indigenous minorities with a total population of over 300,000 people. They have a special status and an opportunity to enjoy a number of preferences from the state. 
Moscow chocolate passes the Arctic cold test 
Moscow confectioneries have successfully passed the permafrost test in the Arctic with their products retaining their nutritional characteristics after being buried for 12 to 42 years. 
This year, researchers have dug up confectioneries that had been buried in permafrost during previous expeditions. The samples included a 1980 Kis-Kis toffee, a 2004 Slava porous chocolate bar and a 2010 Babayevsky Lux chocolate bar. The expedition was held in early August with ambient temperatures in Taimyr around 5˚С above zero. During the winter, it drops to 40˚С below zero. All the samples were in perfect shape. The chocolate grew a little gray” due to migration of fats, which is inevitable with thermal gradient in action. Preliminary evaluations conducted by the researches showed that the sweets had kept their nutritional value,” Head of Moscow’s Investment and Industrial Policy Department Vladislav Ovchinsky said. 
The scientific experiment on storing food in Arctic permafrost has been ongoing for some 120 years now. Products are placed in aluminum containers and buried at a depth of about 2 metres in partially frozen soil, which is subject to significant temperature changes. Six expeditions have taken place as part of the experiment, the last one in 2022. 
Now the samples are stored in dedicated refrigerators and will be studied for three weeks or so. These experiments show changes in the ingredients and their storage life at low, unregulated temperatures, which is particularly important considering the ongoing plans to develop the Arctic territories. 
During the sixth expedition, the researchers buried more product samples in the permafrost, including Babayevsky Elite chocolate, which will be recovered in 2028, 2034, 2040 and 2050. 
The researchers have come up with a series of important findings from these experiments. 
The researchers divided the products into three groups based on their permafrost storability properties. The first group included products like black or green tea and vodka that can be stored in such conditions for an indefinite time with their properties only improving. The shelf life of the products from the second group – canned meat, space food, bread, powdered and condensed milk, as well as low-moisture confectionery, including chocolate – can presumably run to 100 years. The third group includes products such as canned fish and vegetables, pates and sausages that can be stored at low temperatures for three to six years at most. If stored longer, they tend to lose their visual appeal, but can still be eaten,” Sergei Beletsky said. 
Sergei Beletsky is the research leader of the expedition. He is the director of the National Research Institute of the Confectionery Industry which is a branch of the federal state publicly funded research institution, V.M. Gorbatov Federal Research Center for Food Systems of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
Remarkably, chocolate is one of the best solid foods that can be stored long-term in permafrost because it is rich in cocoa butter. 
The percentage of cocoa butter in chocolate, both for the purpose of a scientific experiment and in terms of nutritional value, should be high, and the butter itself should be natural, not rechurned or processed. Normally, chocolate should be stored at a temperature of about 18˚C,” Managing Director of the United Confectioners Group Alexei Orlov said. 
Nikolai Korchunov: Russia-China cooperation in the Arctic is of a purely peaceful, non-military nature 
Nikolai Korchunov, Russian Foreign Ministry Ambassador at Large for International Cooperation in the Arctic and Senior Arctic Official at the Arctic Council, talked about what the Arctic’s inclusion in NATO’s zone of interests implies, how much cargo volume on the Northern Sea Route has increased, and whether the melting ice could influence Moscow’s right to exercise the special regulation of navigation in that zone. 
Question: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg went on record as saying that Russia and China’s cooperation in the Extreme North was at variance with NATO interests and therefore the Alliance was expanding its presence in the region. What is Moscow’s response to this statement? 
Nikolai Korchunov: Russia and China’s interaction in the Arctic is of a purely peaceful, non-military nature. I am primarily referring to interaction in the economy, investment, science and technology, research, and education. Any military alliance’s involvement in other countries’ economic and humanitarian cooperation is a matter of grave concern and creates risks for the region’s sustainable development. 
China, an observer state at the Arctic Council, is pro-active in collaborating with other Arctic nations, including the United States, Canada, and Denmark, in trade and the economy. Moreover, the volume of investment cooperation between Beijing and these countries in a number of sectors exceeds the indices of its cooperation with Russia in the Arctic. This once again confirms the untenable nature of the claims made by the NATO Secretary-General. 
Beijing, unlike the NATO countries, has traditionally followed a policy of military restraint in the Polar regions. China has not held military exercises in the Arctic region, which we cannot say about the non-Arctic NATO countries like the UK whose military presence in the high latitudes is sometimes provocative and enhances military tensions there. Including the Arctic in NATO’s zone of interests will only complicate the military-political situation in the region, enhance the propensity for conflict, and create serious challenges for other countries, including Russia, in the high latitudes. 
Russia is well below the United States and NATO as a whole in terms of military facilities in the Arctic regions. Moreover, we are only restoring the military infrastructure in the North that was lost after the collapse of the USSR. Russia abides by its commitments to keep the Arctic regions a territory of low military tensions, it displays restraint and does not deploy foreign military contingents in its Arctic zone. 
Question: Is Russia planning to take measures to prevent threats to civilian shipping along the Northern Sea Route, which could arise in connection with NATO’s putative activities in the Arctic? 
Nikolai Korchunov: I can assure you that the military is taking all the necessary measures that take into account increased NATO activity in the Arctic in recent years and that make it possible to prevent threats to civilian shipping in the Northern Sea Route area. 
Question: What is Russia’s attitude toward the US initiative to establish the position of Ambassador at Large for the Arctic to promote its interests in the region? Will Moscow cultivate relations with this ambassador? 
Nikolai Korchunov: I will refrain from assessing Washington’s decision to have an ambassador at large for the Arctic. Obviously this is evidence of the Arctic region’s importance in the context of US foreign policy. 
For our part, we are open to constructive contact with all Arctic countries, including the United States, in the interests of maintaining a low level of military-political tensions and ensuring sustainable development in the Arctic region. 
Question: According to a draft law submitted to the State Duma, foreign warships will be required to notify Moscow via diplomatic channels 90 days prior to the presumed date of passage on the Northern Sea Route. Does the Russian Foreign Ministry believe that this initiative has prospects? 
Nikolai Korchunov: I think it is premature to offer any comment while this draft law is still being considered. 
Question: Is there an understanding as to when a Main Directorate for the Northern Sea Route will be established to organise traffic along this route? 
Nikolai Korchunov: The Government of Russia has approved plans to establish the Main Directorate for the Northern Sea Route. Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin broke the news on August 1, 2022. Currently, this directorate is in the process of being organized. The founder is the Rosatom Corporation, which should be addressed on details with respect to concrete timeframes and other things. 
Question: How has this year’s freight volume on the Northern Sea Route increased in terms of percentage? Is Russia negotiating new projects with foreign businesses, specifically the effort to create a transit system for container shipping on the Northern Sea Route? Is there an increase in the share of foreign companies making more frequent use of the Northern Sea Route after the changes in traditional logistics chains thanks to the West’s sanctions? 
Nikolai Korchunov: The trend of increasing freight volume on the Northern Sea Route has continued for several years now. In 2021, it reached a record high, over 33.5 million tons. During the first six months of 2022, over 22 million tons were transported, with the necessary measures being taken to further increase these volumes. 
Many more states are interested in cooperating with Russia to develop the Northern Sea Route. This interaction plays a significant role in the context of efforts to ensure the steady functioning of the entire world economy. There is no need to prove the importance of diversifying maritime routes. This was clear from, among other things, the March 2021 incident, where a container ship, the Ever Given, blocked the Suez Canal for several days, causing a collapse in maritime shipping. 
Let me note that while developing the Northern Sea Route and Arctic shipping in general, the Russian Federation remains open to cooperation with all countries who constructively approach interaction with this country, including extra-regional states. 
Question: Can Arctic warming lead to new problems in the Northern Sea Route area? Will the melting ice create a situation where Russia will lose its right to special regulation of navigation in the NRS zone? 
Nikolai Korchunov: Climate change, including the decline of the ice cover, is emerging as an everyday reality. As the ice melts, new opportunities for shipping are increasing, which were unavailable before due to low-cost effectiveness and high safety risks. This country’s rights to regulate shipping on the Northern Sea Route are based on a firm international legal foundation. I would like to stress that the ice melting has no effect whatsoever on the Russian Federation’s rights and obligations as the largest Arctic state. 
Question: Is Russia continuing to cooperate with the Arctic countries on climate and the environment, given the anti-Russia policies of a number of Western countries? Specifically, are there still prospects for cooperation on lifting submerged radioactive items from the seafloor of the Arctic Ocean? 
Nikolai Korchunov: In responding to the well-known escapade staged by other Arctic countries in March of this year, the Russian Federation has suspended climate and environmental cooperation. As the current chair of the Arctic Council, Russia is dissatisfied with the situation where there is no action on the decisions of the Arctic Council’s 2021 ministerial session in Reykjavik. This has a negative effect on projects for preserving the fragile Arctic ecosystem, promoting scientific and regional collaboration, and enhancing the wellbeing of residents in the entire Arctic region, including the indigenous peoples in these areas. 
As for the lifting of the submerged radioactive objects from the Arctic seafloor, the participation of foreign countries in these projects is not being discussed. 
Stamps and envelopes depicting the Arktika and Sibir icebreakers now in circulation 
Stamps and envelopes showing the Arktika and Sibir (Siberia) nuclear icebreakers were put into circulation. A cancellation ceremony took place simultaneously at the Baltic Shipyards in St. Petersburg and in Murmansk. 
This event is very interesting. I am very grateful to Russian Post for making it possible to capture the images of the icebreakers that we built so wonderfully,” said Alexei Kadilov, general director of Baltic Shipyard, at the ceremony. 
This will spread throughout the country. <…> It will reach all people; they will see it and be proud of the icebreakers that the whole country helped to build, without exaggeration.” 
Alexei Volkov, deputy director of Russian Post’s North-West Macroregion, noted: The icebreaker fleet and Russian Post basically promote the same cause: they bind the people of Russia together.” 
Stamps and envelopes depicting nuclear icebreakers from the Russian Marine Fleet series will be distributed to the country’s post offices with a print run of 120,000 pieces of each image. In addition to the stamps, a commemorative art postmark was also designed with a cancellation date of September 22, 2022. 
According to Baltic Shipyard’s press service, it is symbolic that the simultaneous cancellation on the five-year anniversary of the launch of the Sibir universal nuclear icebreaker took place both aboard the ship and at the shipyards. 
Resident companies of the Arctic zone to invest in the Krasnoyarsk Territory 
Twenty resident companies of the Arctic zone will invest 36.7 billion rubles in the Krasnoyarsk Territory’s economy; another 28 companies with an investment portfolio worth 2.2 billion rubles are getting ready to obtain resident status. 
As of today, 20 residents of the Arctic zone have been registered in the Krasnoyarsk Territory. The total amount of committed investment is 36.7 billion rubles. There are plans to create 1,622 new jobs,” the local Ministry of Economy and Regional Development reports. 
The resident companies are implementing six projects in the tourism sector, five in services, four in industrial production, two in construction, as well as projects in IT, trade and mining. 
Another 28 companies with a committed investment totaling 2.2 billion rubles are preparing packages of documents to obtain resident status. They are expected to create 2,120 new jobs,” the ministry spokesperson added. 
A major project is underway to develop the Syradasaisky coal field at the cost of 33 billion rubles. The project is being implemented by the Severnaya Zvezda (Northern Star) Company (part of AEON Group). Its plans include the construction of an open-cast coal mine with a capacity of 5 million metric tons of coal per year at the first stage and 10 million metric tons per year at the second stage, a coal-preparation plant, a seaport (Yenisei), a motor road, a temporary worker village, a power station and an airfield. 
Yamal Peninsula’s natural-geographic conditions suitable for polar farming 
Arctic Research Center scientists have determined that the natural, geographic conditions in the Krasnoselkup District are suitable for polar agriculture, as analyses of local soils and crop vegetation in the villages of Krasnoselkup, Tolka and Ratta have shown. 
Specialists collected 70 kilograms of earth samples for chemical analysis and have identified 11 soil profiles. Today, local residents grow potatoes, tomatoes, beets, carrots, zucchini, squash, strawberries and lettuce on open land. 
The soils we studied are warm and sandy, with almost no permafrost. This is why the ground warms up quickly in the summer and absorbs humidity, an important condition for agriculture,” Yevgenia Morgun, a leading research associate with the Arctic Research Center, said. 
The center’s researchers analyzed local farming methods, including the use of fish fragments together with traditional fertilizer, for boosting potato and other vegetable crop yields. These methods are less popular in other parts of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. Some vegetable farmers place forest game remains in compost. Livestock-breeding farms in Krasnoselkup and Tolka help develop the district’s vegetable farming sector. 
After the expedition to the Krasnoselkup District, Arctic Research Center researchers will publish a study with advice on how to develop the polar farming sector, facilitate food security in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area and provide self-employment to the indigenous people. 
Yakutia presents a project to update Port of Tiksi 
The Port of Tiksi will be modernized; the project includes the expansion and construction of a new deep-water sea terminal near the village of Naiba in Bulunsky District, which is 112 km from Tiksi. These upgrades will push the transport hub toward development, and will also make it less costly to deliver supplies to the North. In addition, it will help expedite large investment projects in the Arctic regions of Yakutia. 
"Due to the changes in the transport corridors in the country as a whole, the role of the Northern Sea Route is now increasing significantly. This will affect the Arctic territories of Yakutia, primarily those adjacent to the Arctic Ocean – both in terms of the country's security, and the logistics of northern supply hauls. It will also help expedite a number of major projects in these territories, including for minerals development. They will all receive a boost for more intensive development," said Aysen Nikolayev, the head of the republic. 
Representatives of the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic and the Federation Council Committee on Federal Structure, Regional Policy, Local Government and Northern Affairs have already had a look at the project. 
The Yakutian authorities have defended the investment project plan, which contains all the information on the schedule as well as on the project’s financial and economic feasibility. 
"The advantage of this location is that it is protected from offshore winds and has deep waters, which allows ships with a draft of up to 10 meters to approach the shore. Annually, about 2.7 million tons of cargo is delivered during the navigation season, 300,000 tons of which are delivered via the Northern Sea Route. Construction of a deep-sea port in the Bulunsky District will allow an increase in shipping volumes and less expensive delivery of fuel, food and essential goods," said Vladimir Sivtsev, the republic’s Minister of Transport and Road Facilities. 
The current conditions of this port shows a lot of wear and tear. The last time dredging was carried out was in the 1980s. Now the channel depth near the shores of the Laptev Sea and the Northeast Sea is only four to five meters. 
Tiksi is an important transportation hub, a focal point for the implementation of major infrastructure projects in subsurface resource management, energy and social development in the republic’s Arctic regions. 
Crew of North Pole ice-resistant platform in search of ice floe for research work 
Scientists are looking for an ice floe to set up a research camp for the North Pole 41 drifting polar expedition. A suitable base will be selected from a Kamov Ka-32 helicopter. 
For more than a year and a half, experts from the Institute of the Arctic and Antarctic have been monitoring ice floes in the area where the North Pole ice-resistant platform is supposed to start a drift. They will make their final choice in the Arctic, directly at the starting point of the drift. 
An ice reconnaissance crew will conduct an aerial inspection on board a helicopter to select suitable ice floes. The next stage is landing on an ice floe to further explore it, and determine its age and thickness. The scientists will choose the right candidate based on these parameters. Then our job will be to secure the North Pole ice-resistant platform next to an ice floe. The platform can be moored to the selected ice floe close to its edge, and more ice will eventually build up. Another option is the platform will navigate deeper into the drifting ice with the help of the Akademik Treshnikov scientific research expedition. The chances of reaching the right ice floe will increase; however, more time is required and there is a risk of damaging the ice cover. The scientists will decide on the right method based on the actual conditions,” said Alexander Makarov, director of the Institute of the Arctic and Antarctic. 
The prospective launch point is located in the Arctic Ocean to the north of Henrietta Island. In late September, the North Pole expedition will arrive in the area to start a two-year drift, with its trajectory mapped through the circumpolar region and the Greenland Sea. Once the platform has passed through the Fram Strait, it will return to Murmansk using its own power. 
Krasnoyarsk Territory to increase state support for indigenous population starting in 2023 
Representatives of small indigenous peoples of the Krasnoyarsk Territory with traditional occupations, such as reindeer herding, commercial hunting and fishing, will receive increased payments, as well as a larger subsidy for the development of domestic reindeer herding. 
The program was discussed at a Krasnoyarsk government meeting. The total amount of funding for the state program in 2023-2025 will amount to more than 2.5 billion rubles from the regional and federal budgets, while the region will allocate more than 2.4 billion rubles for support. 
We continue to work on improving the support measures for small-numbered indigenous peoples of the North, protecting their original living area and developing northern areas of the territory in general. It is important to guarantee stable income growth for reindeer herders and hunters, as well as preserve the unique, original culture and native languages of the northern ethnic groups,” Deputy Chairman of the Krasnoyarsk Territory’s government Sergei Vereshchagin said. 
The changes will affect monthly compensations to reindeer herders in Taimyr, Evenkia and the Turukhansk District, and hunters in Taimyr and the Turukhansk District, as well as a one-time allowance to Evenk hunters and fishers to prepare for the fishing season, with an indexation of 27 percent planned. 
In addition, compensation payments for the development of home reindeer herding will increase (by 40 percent) for the first time in five years. In total, over 3,000 reindeer herders, hunters and fishers in the region will receive the state support. 
All costs are set out in the 2023-2025 state support program for small-numbered indigenous peoples of the North and people with a traditional way of life. 
Arctic Yakutia to set up extreme tourism cluster 
It will take about 150 million rubles to set up and expand an extreme tourism cluster in Yakutia’s Arctic district of Anabarsky, whose northern section touches the Laptev Sea. This will make it possible to increase local tourist traffic almost ten times over. 
Together with local businesspersons, we have drafted a master plan for expanding the tourism sector. We will establish an extreme tourism cluster by 2027, and there are also plans to build two hotels by that time. We have purchased two amphibious freight-and-passenger all-terrain vehicles and a hovercraft for expanding the tourism cluster,” First Deputy Head of the District Administration Iosif Vasilyev noted. 
The new cluster will allow the district to receive up to 2,000 tourists annually. So far, the number of tourists independently visiting the area is rather small. In all, 218 and 266 tourists stayed here in 2020 and 2019, respectively. 
According to the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation, tourism projects account for 20 percent of all projects being implemented by resident companies in the Russian Arctic. Over 100 resident companies working in the tourism industry are registered in the Russian Arctic. 
Yakutia and Taimyr to become new major coal producers in Russia 
Russia plans to move the bulk of coal production from its western areas to the east and start developing coal deposits in Yakutia and Taimyr. 
We plan to move the bulk of coal production to the east of the country and simultaneously tap the potential of Russia’s leading Kuzbass, Gorlovsky and Kansko-Achinsky coal fields as much and as effectively as possible,” Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak said in his comments for the Energy Policy journal. There are also plans to develop new deposits of coking coal in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), and of hard coal and coking coal on the Taimyr Peninsula in Russia’s Arctic zone.” 
Alexander Novak added that Russia also remained committed to switching settlements in coal trade to national currencies. Payment mechanisms like this have already been provided for coal export to China, India and other countries.” 
In his words, the Government is working on a program to fund purchases of Russian equipment for the coal industry at a reduced rate of 3% to 5% per annum for a term of five years. 
Also, we need to find a solution before long to a difficult logistics task, that is ensuring the supply from abroad of equipment, the analogs of which are not manufactured in Russia and the production of which cannot be put in place in the near future,” he said. 
Uniform Subsidy program extends to the Arctic 
The Government extended the Uniform Subsidy program, which is currently operating in the Far East, to the Arctic. This mechanism will make it possible to substantially improve infrastructure and upgrade the living standards of local people. Relevant amendments were introduced to the Government’s resolution. 
The Arctic subsidy will make it possible to build more social facilities and utilities infrastructure, and expedite their construction by using the Arctic Concession mechanism. This program allows the authorities to attract investment for social infrastructure today but pay for the built facilities from the budget gradually, over 7-15 years. Investment in the first 15 socially important projects that may be carried out in the Arctic in the near future exceeds 75 billion rubles,” said Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov. 
Arctic regions are drafting social development plans that provide for upgrading the social infrastructure, such as the construction, renovation and major repairs of hospitals, schools, kindergartens, cultural and leisure centers, sports complexes and other facilities, as well as urban improvements and public transport modernization. 
Over 1,700 social facilities – schools, hospitals, kindergartens and sports complexes – have already been built or renovated in the Far East under the Uniform Subsidy program. Overall, about 2,000 projects will be implemented by 2024. Over 122 billion rubles have gone into building and upgrading social facilities in the Far Eastern Federal District under this program since 2018. 
Polar Bear Count completed on Wrangel Island 
The first stage of the Polar Bear Count research expedition ended on Wrangel Island. Orlan unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) were used during the study as a new monitoring method. 
The aerial monitoring of polar bears was carried out in the first half of September, when the ice strip near the island has minimal area, and the entire group of polar bears is concentrated on the island. During this month, the animals are clearly visible on the still dark surface, and it is easy to detect the bears with high-resolution photo and video cameras from a height of 200-300 meters, where UAVs operate,” the Natural Resources Ministry website reads. 
During the study, total UAV flight time was over 103 hours, the total length of the route was 8,317 km, and almost 23,000 photographs were taken. In addition, various territories, including the coast, the plains and the mountains, were surveyed, the locations where the polar bears were found were recorded with a coordinate-time reference, and the number of polar bear sightings on the survey strip, on the survey tacks, was calculated at 358 polar bears. 
The method for monitoring polar bears using Orlan UAVs is expected to be widely introduced in the Russian Arctic zone to count other polar bear populations,” said Olga Krever, head of the expedition and deputy director of the Informational and Analytical Center for the Support of Protected Areas (Roszapovedtsentr) of the Ministry of Natural Resources. 
In addition to counting the number of polar bears on Wrangel Island, the distribution of the bears was clarified, and the state of the rare predator and its habitats was assessed. Also, the polar bear’s prey, including walruses, whales, seals, bearded seals, musk oxen, and near-water birds, were studied. Information was collected on cases of dead animals washed ashore on Wrangel Island, as well as on the polar bears’ consumption of the dead animals on the island. 
Simultaneously with the aerial monitoring, a large count was also carried out on the ground. Several members of the expedition, with an all-terrain vehicle, carried out a visual survey of the island, photographed and videotaped the polar bears and other animals, recorded meeting places and groupings of animals, dead animals, and took samples of water, snow and soil for further research on the pollution of polar bear habitats, which will make it possible to assess the state of the habitats on Wrangel Island. 
Another group of researchers, which included specialists from the Wrangel Island Reserve, carried out an on-ground visual count of the polar bears on a long-term circular route, where all the encountered polar bears were recorded and the number and distribution of the bears on the island were estimated. Subsequently, the data from the aerial surveys and ground route surveys will be compared and analyzed. 
Based on the archive of collected data, the scientists will estimate the number of bears on Wrangel Island by extrapolating the data obtained using Nikita Chelintsev’s method. 
Russian Government to extend Far Eastern Hectare and Arctic Hectare programs 
The Russian Government proposed extending the duration of the Far Eastern Hectare and Arctic Hectare programs until March 1, 2023. 
Most often, people build homes, set up agricultural businesses or engage in other entrepreneurial activity. Anyone using these land plots for over five years can either privatize them or sign 49-year lease contracts. As it often happens, people started doing this before the five-year deadline expired. Many of them simply don’t have enough time. There are plans to extend the privatization or leasing of cultivated land plots until March 1, 2023,” Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin noted. 
He added that the relevant bill obliged the authorities to inform participants in the Far Eastern Hectare and Arctic Hectare programmes about this by email, via personal accounts on the Government Services website or by other means. 
This notification should be received six months before the contract on using the land plot expires. These changes will help protect the rights of people who are actively developing their land plots in the Far East and other territories,” he noted. 
The Prime Minister recalled that the President had emphasized the need to support people willing to work on these Arctic plots, which they now develop for over a year, he noted. About 10,000 people applied for the program, and over 108,000 Far Eastern residents have received their hectare under the Far Eastern Hectare program, which was launched over six years ago, he added. 
Bear on an ‘ice throne’ wins the Golden Turtle photo contest 
Photographer Nikolai Gernet’s photo Ice Throne, which features a polar bear, won the Protected Russia category of the Golden Turtle international photo contest. 
Nikolai Gernet works in the environmental education and tourism department of Russian Arctic National Park. 
"It was the photo taken in the protected area, where the endangered king of the Arctic proudly sits, that brought me victory in this important contest,” Nikolai Gernet said. I have been working in Russian Arctic National Park since 2013, but I still look forward to every field season: the Arctic will never stop inspiring me. I still have a lot of plans and ideas, tasks and new challenges to pursue.” 
The Golden Turtle creative contest takes place as part of the international wildlife festival of the same name. This year, participants from 111 countries submitted more than 14,200 works to the contest. The results were summed up on October 14, Protected Area Workers Day. 
Soyuzmultfilm to release Umka series in late October 
The Soyuzmultfilm film studio will present the Umka animated series for young viewers. The first episodes of the cartoon about the unique culture of northern peoples will be available at a popular online cinema beginning in late October. 
The main character is the friend of Umka the little polar bear, the boy Taike, who grew up and became a shaman. He’s the one who tells the children fascinating stories about the times when he was small and was friends with the polar bear cub. 
In addition to Umka the bear cub and his mother, there are such characters as Ilma the Arctic she-wolf, Kora the seal, Pychik the pink gull, the comical villainess Makha the wolverine and others. A distinctive feature of Umka is the soundtrack, which combines a shaman's tambourine, flute, harp, and orchestral and folk music. 
An incredibly sincere and lyrical story about the friendship of a boy and a polar bear cub, told decades ago, remains one of the most touching and tender examples of Russian animation. These traditional Russian cartoons, with their vivid imagery and simple, laconic stories about Umka, show the warmth of maternal love, the irresistible childish desire to explore the world and true friendship. These timeless values, the rich artistic world and the success of the short film about Umka inspired us to create a new unique cartoon universe,” the press service quoted Yuliana Slashcheva, Chairman of the Board of Directors of Soyuzmultfilm, as saying. 
Currently, the crew continues to work on the first season of the animated series, which will consist of 26 episodes. 
The film studio began creating the animated series in 2021. Consultants include Anna Otke, president of the Association of Indigenous Peoples of Chukotka, and Umka Kaipanau, head of the Chukchi traditional ensemble Kochevnik. The online cinema Okko acted as a co-producer and financial partner of Umka. 
Designed for a preschool audience, the series were inspired by the classic films by Vladimir Popov and Vladimir Pekar Umka (1969) and Umka Looking for His Friend (1970). In 2019, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the release of the first film, Soyuzmultfilm created the final part of the trilogy called Umka at the New Year Party. The short cartoon had over 10 million views on online platforms. 
Foodstuffs and building materials delivered to Yakutian Arctic via NSR 
About 730 tons of food, including flour, sugar, grain, pasta, sunflower oil, canned food, juices, apples, onions, potatoes and construction materials first arrived in Russia’s Yakutian Arctic regions via the Northern Sea Route. 
Motor ship STK-1012 left Astrakhan in August with the cargo and arrived at the port of Chersky in the Nizhnekolymsky District via the port of Tiksi, Bulunsky District. It took the ship two months. 
Food was purchased directly from producers in the Krasnodar Territory and Astrakhan Region and delivered to the Bulunsky, Ust-Yansky, Nizhnekolymsky, Srednekolymsky and Verkhnekolymsky districts. 
We have signed direct contracts with manufacturers, thus reducing the cost of products in the Arctic regions. Despite the complex transportation logistics involved, the volume of essential food items delivered via all means of transportation is growing every year. In 2022, we have to deliver 9,800 tons, including 5,500 tons delivered by winter road, and 3,900 tons shipped during the navigation; the plan for air transport is 375 tons by the end of the year,” said Yakutopttorg CEO Nikolai Alekseyev. 
The additional amount of food for the Kolyma ulus (district) group was sent with the refrigerated motor ships Magdeburg (416.7 tons) and Rosslau (101.5 tons), which arrived in Chersky on October 4–5. 
Previously, essential goods had been delivered by rail and by water when rivers were navigable, and partially by winter roads as well. In addition, last year, products were brought to remote places by small aircraft. 
Now a federal law on northern delivery is being developed in line with the president’s instructions. 
The assistance from the federal budget for the logistics and compensation of certain costs and cheaper tariffs will be very important. And we really hope that our best practices, including the Yakutopttorg project for trade and logistics centers, the delivery of fruits and vegetables to the most remote regions of the republic, can be used by other regions,” Head of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev said earlier. 
A herd of 29 musk oxen discovered in eastern Taimyr 
The participants of the Pyasina-2022 integrated research expedition studied the distribution of the musk ox population in Taymyr. The largest herd has about 29 individuals and inhabits the eastern part of Taymyr. 
As the researchers themselves note, a certain trend came to light during the study. 
There were practically no musk oxen in the western part of Taymyr and only isolated individuals and small herds were recorded in the central part. In the eastern part of Taymyr – in the places of its acclimatization such as the basins of the Bikada-Nguoma and Bolshaya Balakhnya rivers and the vicinity of Lake Taymyr, the population density of musk oxen was quite high and these animals were found everywhere in groups averaging 14-17 individuals. However, there were no large clusters of these animals; the most numerous herd numbered 29 individuals,” the press service of the Joint Directorate of the Taymyr Nature Reserves reports. 
At the moment, experts are recording the total number of musk oxen, their gender and age structure and herding data. 
The research expedition was conducted on the grounds of nature reserves from July 15 to August 22, 2022. The total length of the routes covered was 10,000 km. The researchers used the method of aerial count using amphibious aircraft and a single-engine Sterkh aircraft over an area exceeding 150 000 sq. km. Currently, lab processing of the data obtained is being carried out to assess the state of the populations: aerial photographs are being processed to determine the musk ox’s demographic structure. 
Roscosmos to launch nine satellites by 2026 to develop the Arctic 
Roscosmos State Corporation is planning to launch nine spacecraft in Arctic orbit by 2026. Four of these will provide broadband internet access, three will perform radar surveillance, and two will conduct hydrometeorological research. 
Creating a constellation of Arctic satellites in orbit is crucial for developing the Northern Sea Route. According to our plan, two Arktika-M spacecraft, which will provide data on the hydrometeorological situation in the high latitudes, should be put in orbit by 2024. The same goes for two Condor-FKA and one Obzor-R radar surveillance satellites. By 2026, we will add another four Express-RV satellites, which will provide broadband internet access,” Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev told a meeting at the Vostochny Space Launch Center. 
Roscosmos Director General Yury Borisov specified that the state corporation’s choice of satellites for the constellation was primarily based on requests coming from Northern Sea Route users. 
The first Arktika-M hydrometeorological satellite was put in a Molniya-type highly elliptical orbit in February 2021. 
Arkhangelsk Northern Maritime Museum announces Gift Days 
The Northern Maritime Museum in Arkhangelsk is launching a new project. On the last Friday of each month, people can donate items and documents that link them and their relatives with Russia’s maritime history. 
If you don’t want the memory of your seafaring ancestors to fade away then you should consider donating any item or document related to their work to the Northern Maritime Museum. The items will become part of the museum collection, and some items will be sent to the State Museum Fund of the Russian Federation,” the museum’s press service said. 
In addition to physical items, the museum’s staff will record the recollections of presenters; curators will carefully accept and record family memories,” the press service noted. 
Unfortunately, practice shows that even if older people care about family history, younger relatives may not always share this feeling. These items are either destroyed or become worthless and lose their commemorative value. Let’s respect and value the life and work of our ancestors and preserve their memory. The museum is your best assistant in this respect,” the press release noted. 
Items will be accepted on October 28, from 10 am though 6 pm. 
Russian Foreign Ministry and Norwegian ambassador discuss Russia’s presence on Spitsbergen 
The Russian Foreign Ministry called on Norway to engage in dialogue in order to resolve the problems related to Russia’s presence on the Spitsbergen (Svalbard) Archipelago, the volume and complexity of which are growing year by year. 
During his meeting with Norwegian Ambassador to Russia Robert Kvile, First Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Titov noted that the Russian side was worried by Oslo’s destructive anti-Russian policy, which undermines the foundations of bilateral cooperation.” 
According to the ministry, the ambassador presented Titov with copies of his credentials. 
Trade and economic cooperation has been practically curtailed, and difficulties in the fishery sector are growing. We called on the Norwegian side to engage in dialogue in order to resolve the problems related to Russia’s presence on the Spitsbergen Archipelago, the volume and complexity of which are growing year by year,” the ministry’s press service reported. 
The Foreign Ministry noted the growing activity of NATO in northern Europe and the Arctic, including on Norway’s territory, which destabilizes the military and political situation in this region.” 
The ministry also stressed that Norway’s involvement in supplying weapons to Kiev can only protract the hostilities, lead to new casualties, and hinder the resolution of the conflict.” 
The 5th International Research-to-Practice Conference, Universe of the Polar Bear, ends in Chukotka 
The Universe of the Polar Bear 2022 conference resulted in an initiative to create standard and unified means to protect people from polar bears. Conference participants discussed the problem of protecting people in the Russian Arctic in human−polar bear conflict situations and came to a consensus on the need to create specialized, effective protective equipment in the north. 
An analysis of the data on the use of personal protective equipment provided to the Bear Patrol specialists in Chukotka showed that in a number of cases the effectiveness of this equipment is insufficient. This results in risks to the lives of bears and people alike. So, it is necessary to design a more effective way to scare polar bears away, something that is important to the residents of northern settlements, polar stations, and any area where people can encounter polar bears,” said Alexei Yakovlev, head of the Department of Natural Resources and Ecology of the Chukotka Autonomous District. 
In addition, the Chukchi Sea and Wrangel Island coastline studies, carried out this year with unmanned aerial vehicles, were discussed. The project included high resolution photos of the coast. These surveys were conducted in the Russian Arctic zone for the first time. 
The project provided data on polar bear habitats, the state of the coastline in terms of the environment, and sites of accumulated environmental damage. In addition, the project included high-resolution images of coastal settlements and the territories around them. These data can be used both in urban planning, and in industry, and in cleaning the area, among other things,” according to the Chukotka Autonomous District Government website. 
The participants used the conference to review the equipment being used by the Bear Patrols in the Chukotka Autonomous District. This year the specialists were equipped with protective clothing and other protection gear, including hardware where necessary. In addition, they were given life and health insurance. 
It was decided to document the results of the 5th International Research-to-Practice Conference, Universe of the Polar Bear, which took place in Anadyr as part of Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council, in a conference resolution, which will be sent to the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment of the Russian Federation, as well as to the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources. 
Roscosmos to launch nine satellites to promote navigation safety on the Northern Sea Route 
Deputy Prime Minister Yury Trutnev and Roscosmos Director General Yury Borisov discussed creating an Arctic satellite constellation to promote navigation safety on the Northern Sea Route (NSR) at a meeting at the Vostochny Cosmodrome. 
Under the plans, two Arktika-M satellites need to be put into orbit by 2024 to transmit hydrometeorological data for the high latitudes. These are to be followed by two Kondor-FKA and one Obzor-R radar surveillance satellites. By 2026, four Express-RV satellites will be launched to provide broadband internet access in Russia’s Arctic zone. 
Safe shipping on the Northern Sea Route will not be possible unless we create an Arctic satellite constellation; this is now under way. The start of this series of satellites will begin in a few days to serve this global transport corridor’s infrastructure. Roscosmos is doing a good job in decreasing the backlogs that existed before. The timeframe for launching the satellite constellation in all its aspects has been reduced,” Yury Trutnev said. 
The Roscosmos chief said that the state corporation was prioritizing its NSR project. 
We have a development schedule for the design and launch of the satellite constellation, and all responsibilities have been determined. Funding has been allocated in full,” Borisov added. Any ‘shifts to the right’ must be ruled out to provide our users with all services on time.” 
Under Russian law, Roshydromet is charged with monitoring the ice cover and the hydrometeorological situation in the Arctic region, among others. We have the Sever (North) system to extend information support to ships navigating the Northern Sea Route. There is also a state space monitoring system with satellite centers in Moscow, Novosibirsk, and Khabarovsk that receive and process weather satellite data to meet the needs of users concerned. 
Сhum keeper to become a job designation in Russia 
A new job designation, chum keeper, may become official in Russia. A chum is reindeer skin tent. The chum keeper is a person who runs the tent where the reindeer herder lives while tending to the animals. 
This job is typically done by the reindeer herder’s wife, however, it is possible that another person can do it. 
Grigory Ledkov proposed including ‘chum keeper’ on the list of official professions in Russia at a Federation Council meeting. Ledkov is president of the Russian Association of Indigenous Small-Numbered Peoples of the North. 
Chum keeping as such does not exist as a job,” he said, Everyone makes do by either hiring a person as a reindeer herder assistant, a junior herder, or other similar jobs. It’s about time we clarify this.” 
The job include maintaining the hearth in the chum, collecting wood, making water out of snow, cooking and repairing clothes; the reindeer herding season can last many months. 
When needed, the chum keeper helps the reindeer herder with the herd, but this person does not receive a salary because she is usually the wife, at least in the traditions of the Far North,” the parliamentary paper says. 
The Russian Arctic is home to 19 indigenous small-numbered ethnicities. They are mostly engaged in traditional activities like animal husbandry, dog breeding, hunting and fishing, collecting wood and wild mushrooms and berries, and they construct traditional dwellings and make folk crafts. 
The Federation Council members discussed supporting the traditional activities of the indigenous peoples of the North on October 21 at a meeting of the Committee on Federal Structure, Regional Policy, Local Government and Northern Affairs together with the Council on the Development of the Far East, the Arctic and Antarctic under the Federation Council. 
First commercial data processing center in the Arctic opens in Murmansk 
The first regional commercial data processing center (DPC) has been launched in the Russian Arctic, and it will be used to store data from surveillance cameras in the Murmansk Region. 
"The first Arctic commercial data processing center was launched in the city of Murmansk, it is the northernmost commercial data center in our country. Already today, the entire video analytics system is stored here, and there is an opportunity to increase its capacity very quickly, by three or four times. After re-equipping other floors, this data center’s performance can be multiplied within a month," said Alexander Loginov, Director of macroregional North-West branch of Rostelecom Public Joint Stock Company at the opening ceremony. 
He added that the center will store data from the Murmansk Region, and if necessary, its services may be offered to other northern regions of Russia, until they have similar facilities of their own. 
According to the Murmansk Region’s Governor Andrei Chibis, the capacity of the new data processing center is already being used by the regional government. 
"The first client is us, the government. Large video streaming; we are building a security system in Murmansk and our other cities. In the near future, the same system will include citywide cameras and the video security system will be completed," said the Governor. He added that the video surveillance system will help find criminals, prevent dangerous situations, and trace missing people. 
Alexandra Nikipelova, Minister of the region’s digital development, added that the cameras, which provide the video that will be stored in the data center, are already installed in schools and on intercoms at the entrance doors of apartment blocks. 
"They do facial analytics. All data is stored in the system and monitored by law enforcement. By the end of the year, this system will include about 4,000 monitoring devices," Nikipelova said. 
Back in October 2021, the Murmansk Region Government and Rostelecom signed an agreement on setting up the first Arctic data processing center. The regional authorities were the client in the project. The data center's traffic transmission channels, with a capacity of 40 Gbps, are fully reserved with the possibility of further expansion without significant investment. 
Moscow summit to focus on preserving cultural heritage of indigenous peoples of the Arctic 
On November 2, Moscow will host the Arctic Indigenous People's Summit as part of the 3rd Peoples of Russia National Forum. 
The sustainable development of human capital in the Arctic regions, including the indigenous minorities of the North, is one of the key priorities of Russia's chairmanship of the Arctic Council. We consider it important to continue to provide comprehensive support to representatives of these ethnic groups, to work to preserve their traditional way of life, unique cultural characteristics and languages. I am confident that an inclusive summit like this will advance the development of new practices in lawmaking, as well as in cultural and cross-border cooperation,” said Anton Kobyakov, Presidential Adviser, Executive Secretary of the Organizing Committee for Russia's Chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. 
The central event of the summit will be a plenary session, where discussion will focus on the potential of the traditional economy, the modernization of traditional subsistence systems, as well as cross-border cooperation of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic as drivers of their sustainable development in modern conditions. The summit program also includes panel sessions. In one of them, participants will discuss current approaches to the preservation of the languages and cultural heritage of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic. 
The program of Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021-2023 places considerable emphasis on the problems facing indigenous peoples. Last year, Russia appointed a special representative for indigenous affairs and regional cooperation, for the first time in the history of this forum, as well as an ambassador for indigenous youth. This demonstrates an understanding of the need to enhance the Council's efforts to work with the indigenous peoples of the Arctic. Also, during our chairmanship, for the first time, we began to discuss such topics as the protection of the intellectual property rights of indigenous peoples in the context of globalization of economic activity, as well as the creation of mechanisms for interaction between representatives of indigenous peoples and businesses in high latitudes,” commented Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry, Chairman of the Committee of Senior Arctic Officials. 
The Federal Ethnic Affairs Agency’s Expert Advisory Council on the socioeconomic development of indigenous minorities of the North, Siberia and the Russian Far East will hold an expanded meeting on the sidelines of the event. In particular, experts will discuss the practice of residence registration as applied to Russian nationals who represent small-numbers indigenous nomadic or semi-nomadic peoples. 
Representatives of public organizations of indigenous peoples from nine Arctic regions of Russia will also attend the event. 
The event will be streamed on the official website of the Russian Chairmanship. 
Trutnev: Arctic regions to receive 2.6 billion rubles to upgrade social infrastructure 
About 2.6 billion rubles have been allocated for the construction and upgrade of social facilities in four Russian Arctic regions this year: the Komi Republic, the Arkhangelsk Region, the Chukotka Autonomous Area and the Murmansk Region. 
I believe that we will be able to use this tool effectively in the Arctic, too, for the benefit of the people. In 2022, 2.6 billion rubles were allocated for the development of centers of economic growth [in the Arctic - ed.]. Today, 24 measures are planned in four regions: the Komi Republic, the Arkhangelsk Region, the Chukotka Autonomous Area and the Murmansk Region,” Yury Trutnev, Deputy Prime Minister – Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District said. 
Trutnev noted that this tool was first introduced as part of Vladimir Putin’s decisions adopted at the Eastern Economic Forum. He reminded that the single subsidy format was tested in the Far East where it proved very effective. 
Law on northern delivery discussed at Federation Council 
The Federation Council hosted a meeting of the Council to Develop the Far East, Arctic and Antarctic on the issue of Improving legislative support for the delivery of products (goods) to the Far North and equal areas equated to them.” 
Creating a system of state support for northern delivery is one of our most important missions for the socioeconomic development of the Arctic,” Galina Karelova, Deputy Speaker of the Federation Council, said. 
Alexei Chekunkov, Minister for the Development of the Far East and Arctic, explained that the new northern delivery system, which envisages the creation of a comprehensive management scheme and reduced costs across the entire cargo delivery chain will begin working in 2024. The law will include a three-year planning cycle, separation of powers at the federal, regional, and municipal levels, and the categorization of goods. 
That we can make use of digital technologies, the federal information, planning and monitoring system, and be able to tag goods so that will be possible to track cargo throughout the entire shipment, is a very important aspect,” Alexei Chekunkov added. 
Governor of the Nenets Autonomous Area Yury Bezdudny noted the fundamental nature of the draft law developed by the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic involving all regions: 
The law finally determines who will be the coordinator of the northern delivery, as well as who will be the operator along the Northern Sea Route. It also addresses many issues, including supporting infrastructure. Another topic is dredging and infrastructure improvement, which can’t be done by the forces of one region. For us, the draft law is extremely important; it is a matter of life and death. We support it and hope that it will be adopted as soon as possible.” 
Novaya Zemlya to get visitor center for tourists in 2023 
The first visitor center for tourists in Russian Arctic National Park on the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago is to open next year. 
Next year, we are planning to open a visitor center on Cape Zhelaniya, which is located inside the park. Upon arrival, tourists will learn more about the park and the territory they are visiting, as well as its adjoining sections,” the park’s Director, Alexander Kirillov, noted. 
This year we finished working on the Arctic Embassy visitor center that opened in Arkhangelsk in 2020. Specialists made improvements to museums and expanded their displays. In 2023, the park’s staff will continue upgrading the local infrastructure, setting up nature trails, and improving upon guided tours. 
Speaking of our overall plans for 2023, we will continue to keep an eye on live and inanimate objects of nature, to expand the tourism infrastructure in the park, to improve the waterfront and its piers, and to set up nature trails on the islands. We will provide new texts for guided tours and will install QR codes for the park’s audio-guides,” Kirillov added. 
Park authorities will also continue to implement security projects in 2023. According to Kirillov, this experience may be used on other territories, and the park can share its knowledge, experience and best practices with them. 
Some 100 vacancies offered at online Arctic job fair 
An online job fair for enterprises – resident companies in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation has opened on the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation website, a major job search portal. 
The job fair, The Arctic. Oil. Gas, is taking place from November 1 to 10. Another one, The Arctic. Fish. Wood, will be held from November 12 to 21. From November 23 to December 2, the final job fair, called The Arctic. Shipbuilding, will take place. 
During the November series of job fairs, employers – resident companies in the Russian Arctic zone will offer some 100 positions in these sectors. Job seekers will be able to learn online about the vacancies at companies and organizations, the benefits, job requirements and conditions, and send their electronic CVs. Applicants will also be able to chat with employer representatives. We expect that during the series of fairs, enterprises that are the corporation’s partners will be able to increase the number of candidates, find employees for key positions and replenish the personnel reserve of their companies,” said Gasan Gasanbalayev, director of the corporation’s Department for Workforce Development. 
Over 20 companies and organizations in the Russian Arctic zone have confirmed their participation. 
The Russian Arctic zone is the world’s largest preferential area to offer investors a comfortable environment for the implementation of business projects. 
Walrus population in Yamal’s unique rookery reaches 3,000-4,000 
The population of walruses and their pups on the shores of the Kara Sea has increased to approximately 3,000-4,000 individuals, according to experts. The rookery is located in the estuary of the Tiutei-Yakha River near the Kara Sea coast and is considered as the world’s largest concentration of Atlantic walruses. 
Researchers from the Arctic Research Station of the Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology under the Russian Academy of Sciences’ Ural Branch and the Marine Mammals research and expedition center conducted fieldwork in 2022 as part of the Comprehensive Study of Walruses in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
During the research, experts tagged seven walruses with satellite transmitters to monitor their migration; they also took 30 biopsy samples and monitored the rookery via a drone on a daily basis. 
Within the next few months, we will conduct many laboratory studies and analyze the samples,” said Alexander Sokolov, senior research fellow at the Arctic Research Station. 
Following the trip, the researchers noted the need to enhance control measures for monitoring people visiting the rookery. To that end, the area will receive protected area status to preserve the only inland rookery of the endangered animal. 
Last year, the autonomous area launched a three-year program to study walruses. On the Year of the Environment, proclaimed by Governor Dmitry Artyukhov in Yamal, researchers entered a new phase in the research. 
There are currently 14 protected nature areas in Yamal, which is over 10 percent of the island’s total area. Among the specially protected naturаl areas of federal importance are the Verkhne-Tazovsky and Gydan national parks. The other 12 areas are specially protected natural areas of regional importance; among them are the Ingilor Nature Park and the Kharbeisky geological landmark which will become part of the Yamal tourist cluster. 
Over 100 books by Yakut writers now available exclusively online 
Books by Yakut authors, including those in the Yakut language, have appeared in the Stroki (Lines) book service. Now more than a hundred works by local writers are available to all users of the website. 
By the end of the year, the digitized collection will exceed 200 titles. In addition to works of fiction by Yakut authors, service users will be able to access other digitized books of the Ayar publishing house, including those for children and parents, for the development of creativity, for lovers of local history, general history, and many other subjects. More than 80 percent of the books will be available in the Yakut language. 
Cooperation with local publishing houses makes it possible to enrich the Stroki library with unique national content. Now residents of Yakutia, including those from remote uluses and small settlements, in addition to the main content of the library, will be able to learn online about the literature written in their native language. I am sure that our joint project with the Ayar publishing house will attract Yakutia residents to the literature and culture of the republic even more,” said Prokopy Neustroyev, director of MTS in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), which owns the Stroki portal. 
Second season of Children of the Arctic animated series released 
The second season of the Children of the Arctic animated series started on the DetiArktiki.RF portal. The cartoon tells young viewers about the life and culture of the indigenous peoples of the Russian North. 
The Children of the Arctic series is dedicated to the life and culture of the indigenous peoples of the Russian North. The main characters – the Wild Northern Reindeer, the Polar Bear, as well as native northerners Vitya and Anya – get entangled in various adventures that allow them to get to know the people and the world around them better. The first season was released last year. 
The second season is called The Arctic Voyage, and it expands the geography of the main characters' adventures. The Polar Bear, the Wild Reindeer, Vitya and Anya set off on a big journey through the Arctic, and the North Pole is their destination. Four episodes of the second season are already available. 
The new season will include 10 episodes. Already in the first of them, the main characters have to try on their new roles as captain, navigator, rafting instructor and curious tourist and learn the importance of teamwork. In the next episode, the travelers will learn a Nenets legend about the polar day, play Sami football, become acquainted with the crafts and arts of the peoples of the Arctic at the fair of northern craftsmen, visit a polar station and the northernmost post office in the world, and measure the temperature in the coldest place on earth where people live. 
The Children of the Arctic website is being created with support from the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation and the Center for Arctic Initiatives. 
US columnist believes Wrangel Island belongs to United States 
Thomas E. Dans, a columnist for The Wall Street Journal (WSJ) and former Commissioner of the US Arctic Research Commission, believes that the United States should reclaim Wrangel Island from Russia. 
The island, eight time zones east of Moscow and home to some of Earth’s greatest natural wonders, belongs to the US,” he wrote in a recent article. 
According to Dans, Russia has retained the territory unlawfully since 1924, after gunboat Krasny Oktyabr (Red October) arrived at the island and installed a Soviet flag. 
The author wrote that several Arctic islands remain under Russia’s control and the United States must reclaim them, also noting that the military base on the island may threaten his country’s national security. 
Dans recalls that in the early 1990s, current US President Joe Biden had already looked into the issue. 
Thirty years ago he [Biden] ran the Senate Foreign Relations Committee debate during which Sen. Frank Murkowski (R., Alaska) said that a vote in favor of a 1991 US-Russia boundary treaty would in no way prejudice potential future US claims to the islands.” 
Located at the division between the Western and Eastern hemispheres, Wrangel Island was named after Russian polar explorer Ferdinand Wrangel. The first Soviet settlement, Ushakovskoye, was founded on the island in 1926, followed by a nature reserve in 1976. 
North Pole 41 platform launches observation program 
Members of the North Pole 41 platform expedition are now recording observations. It took them about a month to deploy their scientific laboratories and testing sites 500 kilometers from the drifting platform, but observations are now underway. 
The combined testing site consists of geophysical ice research and meteorological facilities and laboratories, an oceanographic terminal, a magnetic pavilion, a workshop, an ice morphometric testing site and the Toros (Tussock) testing site. 
Scientists are now working at the ice research base and in laboratories aboard the North Pole 41 platform. The expedition members are planning to conduct over 50 different research projects and observations to study Arctic environment, various climate patterns and climate change trends and causes, as well as the Arctic region’s biodiversity. 
Incoming data will make it possible to describe how the climate will change in the next few decades. It will also help maintain safe navigation through the Northern Sea Route, implement major infrastructure projects and obtain new evidence to substantiate the Russian Federation’s claim to expand its continental shelf boundaries in the Arctic Ocean. The new work format with the ice-resistant platform, which has become a comfortable and safe home for polar explorers, has proven effective during the early stages of the expedition. It took about a month to set up the expedition camp. The camp will soon receive a vehicle parking and maintenance facility, and we will continue to deploy a unique measuring system that will study large sea-ice fluctuations and the impact of atmospheric disturbances on them. We will also start building a runway in January,” Director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) Alexander Makarov said. 
During the first month of the drifting station’s operation, scientists launched a deep-sea oceanographic system and started taking regular soundings of the Arctic Ocean. 
They are moving to analyze soil and water samples to evaluate overall changes in biological species, quantitative phyto-plankton, zoo-plankton and benthos parameters. The geologists are using deep-sea equipment to scoop up seabed soil, and they analyze these samples at the ship’s laboratories. They will determine their mineral and geochemical composition, pore waters and gaseous inclusions,” an AARI press release noted. 
Ice researchers are also working to study the morphometric and mechanical properties of sea-ice formations and their probable durability. 
Experts have studied lower sea-ice sections with sonar. A network of hydrometeorology observation stations based on 15 self-contained buoys is spread throughout the 16-km research area. The data obtained will help study mesoscale and local changes in heat-and-mass exchange processes inside the system of atmospheric layers, snowdrifts and sea-ice formations and subsurface ocean layers, as well as the formation of inner ocean waves,” the AARI press release added. 
The North Pole 41 expedition’s current coordinates are 83.8767N, 147.041E. In the first month, the ice-locked platform, or ship, drifted over 400 km. 
The President issued instructions to study the problems of volunteers when collecting waste in the Arctic 
Vladimir Putin issued instructions to study the problems encountered by volunteers in the collection and disposal of waste in the Russian Arctic by December 1 in order to amend legislation if necessary and to submit proposals for the funding of this work. 
"The Government of the Russian Federation along with Russia’s regional executive authorities in the Russian Arctic zone, and in conjunction with the non-profit organization "Clean Arctic" have been instructed to analyze the problems of implementing volunteer activities to collect, accumulate, transport and dispose of waste, including in protected water areas, and, if necessary, to submit proposals on amendments to legislation to resolve these problems," reads the list of instructions, which is published on the Kremlin’s website. 
In addition, the President requested proposals on activities aimed at environmental protection and performed by "Clean Arctic" volunteers in the Russian Arctic territories, as well as on funding for these activities. 
RosGeo to start geological exploration at Taymyr coal deposits 
In December 2022, RosGeo plans to launch geological exploration at the Syradasaiskoye and Nizhnelemberovskoye coal deposits on the Taymyr Peninsula. The company is currently transporting machinery, housing modules and equipment to the sites from the port of Arkhangelsk. 
RosGeo signed a five-year contract to conduct the geological exploration in the 60,000-meter drilling area. The drilling will begin in December and continue into early 2023. The work will take place during the winter,” head of RosGeo’s core drilling crew Sergei Knyshov said. 
The initial survey will focus on estimating local reserves. A drill sample will show the geological structure of the coal beds in the deposits, their extent and position. The crew will also learn more about the quality of the coal. 
The company purchased new equipment for the project in Taymyr, most of it made in Russia. It is being shipped from Arkhangelsk to the Yenisei port via the Northern Sea Route. Our equipment was subject to import substitution. In the past, we imported track-laying and earth-moving machinery but now everything we operate is Russian,” Knyshov added, noting that the conditions in the northernmost part of Taymyr are extremely harsh, which requires completely new equipment. 
According to Viktor Ikonnikov, Deputy Chair of the Arkhangelsk Region Government and Minister of Economic Development, Industry and Science, the port of Arkhangelsk has seen a significant increase in freight volumes in the past nine months: The port has processed 30 percent more freight in total, including 15 percent more domestic freight. It is important that the required shipments are delivered to the deposit area before the end of the summer navigation season. We can see that, despite sanctions and restrictions, Arctic projects continue. I think there will be work for our port handlers who manage their jobs so well.” 
Samara scientists develop a nanosatellite to help explore the Arctic 
Scientists at the Academic Korolev Samara National Research University have completed the development of the SamSat-ION nanosatellite, which is designed to study the Earth’s ionosphere. 
This small spacecraft will help scientists gather the data needed for research into the plasma waves along its flight trajectory and to conduct tomography in the upper ionosphere. 
Up-to-date information on the condition of the ionosphere is very important in satellite communications, navigation, and meteorology. It is especially important in polar and sub-polar areas where ionospheric disturbances due to solar activity are strong. The data from this nanosatellite will be useful in the further exploration of the Arctic and the Antarctic. At present, we are completing the assembly of the nanosatellite, and we are conducting ground-based tests and debugging the software,” said Professor Igor Belokonov, head of the interuniversity department of space research at Samara University. 
Importantly, the specialists at the department’s center for nanosatellite technology designed and produced the on-board systems. They hope everything will be completed by late May. 
The nanosatellite will carry unique research equipment. SamSat-ION will include a navigation receiver, a detachable magnetometer on the rod of an original design, and a sensor that will measure plasma parameters as the nanosatellite moves along its orbit. 
Detachable elements allow us to expand the functionality of a nanosatellite. In addition to the antenna opening system, SamSat-ION has a remote magnetometer and a sensitive element in the sensor for monitoring plasma data. We proposed a new technology to reliably open the unit, and we received a patent for it,” Igor Belokonov said. 
Ground-based tests will be conducted at Samara University’s Nanosatellite Testing and Development Center. The device will remain in the thermal vacuum chamber long enough to imitate flight in orbit and will pass through the active phase of being launched into orbit by a carrier-rocket on vibro-dynamic and magnetic simulators. Its energy system will be checked by a Sun simulator. 
A robotic manipulator will calibrate the nanosatellite’s measuring instruments. A unique stand for determining inertial characteristics and the position of the satellite’s center of mass will help us achieve the necessary stabilized location in space,” a statement from the university reads. 
The researchers plan to launch the nanosatellite into an orbit about 550 km up. It could tentatively remain in orbit for about 19 years. The launch could take place this year. 
An additional experiment will be held inflight. The researchers will confirm the possibility of conducting ionospheric tomography from the nanosatellite via signals from the GLONASS Russian satellite navigation system. This experiment was initiated through a joint grant from the Russian and Belarusian fundamental research foundation as part of the first Russian-Belarusian joint scientific project. 
Putin: Russia prioritizes development of Arctic territories 
Russia is prioritizing the development of Arctic territories and efforts to expand its research presence in Antarctica, while also aiming to strengthen international cooperation in these regions. 
Vladimir Putin sent greetings to participants of the International Forum Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow. His message reads, in part: Russia invariably devotes priority attention to the coordinated and comprehensive development of Arctic territories and to expanding the presence of Russian science in Antarctica. Our goal is to strengthen international cooperation in these regions of the planet and to implement joint programmes in the most diverse spheres.” 
The President also said that a new and outstanding page in the history of developing the Arctic opened this year. In September, members of the North Pole-41 scientific expedition started working aboard a self-propelled ice-resistant platform. This high-tech project is focused on monitoring the region’s environment all year round, creating the necessary conditions for the demanding and heroic work of polar explorers.” 
He added that much remains to be done for creating a state permafrost monitoring system. This is extremely important for reducing climate and environmental risks, facilitating the sustainable development of our northern cities and towns and successfully implementing major industrial and infrastructure projects.” 
And, of course, large-scale work will continue in Antarctica. For example, we are quickly building a new Russian wintering complex at the Vostok station. The complex will provide Russian scientists with an excellent opportunity to conduct full-scale research on the White Continent using modern infrastructure,” Putin concluded. 
An additional 2.3 billion rubles to be directed to socioeconomic development in the Arctic 
Allocations for the socioeconomic development of the Arctic were increased by 2.3 billion rubles. 
In general, allocations for the Arctic in 2023 will amount to 7.5 billion rubles. About 500 investment projects are being implemented as part of preferential conditions in the Arctic,” said Nikolai Kharitonov, Chairman of the State Duma Committee on the Development of the Russian Far East and the Arctic. He also noted that the difficult geopolitical situation had no effect on the plans for developing the Russian Arctic zone. 
The current geopolitical situation has had no effect on Arctic development programs. During these months, we are finally approving the federal budget, in which the amounts for the socioeconomic development of the Arctic are higher than previously planned,” Kharitonov said. 
At the same time, investments under the agreements total over 1.3 trillion rubles. 
All these funds need to be disbursed. The implementation of these projects will create more than 30,000 new jobs; over 6,500 jobs have already been created,” he said and added that foreign policy has little effect on work in the Arctic. 
The Meridian ship, which sank during the war years, was discovered by Northern Fleet hydrographers 
Northern Fleet hydrographers discovered the Soviet Meridian hydrographic vessel, which sank in the Barents Sea in 1941. The discovery was made during a stage of the Remember the War expedition. 
The crew of the Nikolai Skosyrev, a small hydrographic vessel discovered the Meridian hydrographic vessel, which sunk in a battle with German destroyers in August 1941, during the final stage of the second season of the Remember the War integrated expedition of the Northern Fleet and the Russian Geographical Society,” the fleet’s press service reports. 
Searches for the Meridian were unsuccessful in 2021 and 2022. The ship was finally found after the search area was expanded during the final stage of the expedition this year. 
It is quite symbolic that the Meridian hydrographic vessel was found by those directly involved in commemorative events in the village of Mishukovo, at the memorial bearing the same name, in 2021 and 2022, that is, the crew of the Nikolai Skosyrev hydrographic vessel,” the press service added. 
This year’s expedition took place in the Arctic in nine stages from April through November. The Murmansk coast on the Kola Peninsula was surveyed between Teriberka and the Eastern Lyceum River for the first time. The search for remnants took place in the Barents and White Seas, in Kola Bay and near Teriberka, as well as near the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago’s islands. 
The Russian Arctic is warming 3.7 times faster than the world average 
Russia is warming 2.5 times faster than the world average, while Russian Arctic warming rates are 3.7 times higher than those for the rest of the world, Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Sergei Anopriyenko noted at the 27th Conference of the Parties (COP 27) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). 
According to Russian scientists, Russia is warming 2.5 times faster than the world on average, and the Russian Arctic is warming 3.7 times faster,” he said. 
Anopriyenko added that temperatures in all Arctic districts had been rising much faster in the past 30 years, and that they had gone up by over four degrees. The warming process inevitably reduces the sea ice area,” the deputy minister noted. According to long-term observations, the area has dwindled more than three-fold in the past 10 years.” 
It is impossible to stop the climate change process immediately, even if all production facilities stop operating all over the world, he said. "Experts estimate the potential economic losses, due to be incurred by melting permafrost layers by 2050, at no less than 5 trillion rubles or over $80 billion,” Anopriyenko added. 
Murmansk governor to head State Council working group on Russian Arctic development 
Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrei Chibis will head a State Council working group on transport, logistics and socioeconomic development of the Russian Arctic. The working group will be primarily responsible for improving the infrastructure along the Northern Sea Route. 
As instructed by President Putin, I will head a working group of the State Council focusing on transport, logistics and socioeconomic development of the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation. The group’s priority is developing the Northern Sea Route infrastructure,” Chibis posted on his Telegram channel. 
The governor noted that the Northern Sea Route’s undeniable advantage is that it is a 40-percent shorter way to deliver freight from Europe to Asia, compared to the Southern Corridor passing through the Suez Canal. In the current foreign political conditions, strengthening and developing our routes has strategic significance for the entire country,” Andrei Chibis said. 
It is a deliberate decision as Murmansk is actively developing as a hub of the Northern Sea Route and a passing point for many transport and logistics links under development in the Arctic,” said Chairman of the State Council Commission on Transport Alexei Tsydenov, who attended the meeting of the working group via videoconference. 
Two leading universities in Murmansk Region to merge 
Murmansk State Technical University and Murmansk Arctic State University, the two leading state universities in the Murmansk Region, will merge into Murmansk Arctic University by April 2023, the region’s press service said. 
The creation of a single university based at Murmansk Arctic State University has been approved by the university’s supervisory board under the chairmanship of Russian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Industry and Trade Denis Manturov,” the regional government’s message said. 
According to Maria Knyazeva, acting rector of Murmansk State Technical University, all degree programs will be preserved, and all lecturers will keep their jobs. The reorganization will transform the departments and faculties. 
The transformation of the educational activity has two tracks, a research one and technology one. The latter includes direct participation of an industrial partner in the educational process down to curating this activity. This productive interaction will keep expanding,” Knyazeva emphasized. 
Minvostokrazvitiya submits northern deliveries bill to the Government 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic (Minvostokrazvitiya) submitted a draft federal law on northern deliveries to the Government for consideration. Earlier, the document was coordinated with 25 regions of the Russian Federation, the concerned ministries and agencies. 
The bill stipulates an entirely new comprehensive system for managing northern deliveries. It defines the concept of northern deliveries and delegates the responsibilities of various government agencies at every level. 
Shipments will be subdivided into three categories for priority processing at ports and terminals. There are plans to introduce digital identification and to improve procurement mechanisms for purchasing the required products,” the ministry website notes. 
The document envisages federal support measures to facilitate northern deliveries. Russian regions will be granted budget loans for buying and delivering high-priority cargo under the northern deliveries program and for providing the relevant delivery services. The regions will also receive subsidies for financing their transport expenses. 
The document also sets forth obligations as regards the financing of work to maintain supporting transport and logistics facilities at the federal, regional and municipal levels. Those taking part in the northern deliveries program will gain easy access to restricted infrastructure facilities. 
According to the plan, a single merchant marine operator will deliver high-priority consignments to northern regions under subsidized tariffs and rates. 
Work is now underway to set up a federal system for monitoring northern deliveries. The system will store all data, including procurement plans and deliveries to specific destinations. 
Minvostokrazvitiya shall act as the main federal coordinator. A procedure for planning northern deliveries shall be approved at the federal level. Areas eligible for the required shipments, cargo lists and supporting transport and logistics facilities shall also be determined federally. The regions, responsible for organizing and carrying out the northern deliveries, shall approve annual three-year delivery plans, draft the list of territories due to receive the cargo and the supporting transport and logistics facilities, and approve expanded regional cargo lists to provide support at the regional level. . 
Minvostokrazvitiya experts drafted the federal law on northern deliveries as per instructions from President of Russia Vladimir Putin and under the supervision of Russian Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev. Today, the northern deliveries program covers 25 Russian regions with a population of over three million. Each year, over 87 billion rubles are allocated for purchasing and delivering over three million metric tons of freight. 
State Duma to discuss draft law on nomadic education for indigenous peoples of the North 
A draft law has been submitted to the State Duma that mandates the creation of necessary conditions for providing preschool and primary school education to the indigenous peoples of the North, Siberia and the Far East in the areas of their traditional residence and economic activity. 
According to the explanatory note, the experience of the regions that provide nomadic education in the indigenous communities of the North showed that during the year, children receive education outside schools far away from populated areas. Home schooling is practically impossible due to the parents’ lack of qualifications and free time. At the same time, remote education is not available because of the far distance of nomad camps from populated localities, the underdeveloped transport infrastructure and absence of a stable internet connection.” 
According to the senators, the draft law will help more children receive education. The education process is currently regulated by the regions, while the draft law will outline its provisions at the federal level. 
The nomadic education format has already been introduced in selected areas in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, the Nenets Autonomous Area, the Amur Region, the Krasnoyarsk Territory, Yakutia, the Komi Republic and Chukotka. There are currently 4,676 traditional families of the indigenous peoples of the North with 2,203 pre-schoolers and 4,366 school-age children. 
Four Arctic economic growth centers to appear in Komi 
The Komi Republic will build four economic growth centers in its polar area as part of the social development plan devised by the republic’s government. These include a transport, logistics and industrial center in Vorkuta, an oil and gas center in Usinsk, a mineral resources and mountain tourism development center in Inta, and a mining industry and event tourism center in the Ust-Tsilemsky District. 
Previously, the Presidium of the State Commission for Arctic Development approved a subsidy in the amount of 772.3 million rubles for Komi. These funds will be used to purchase equipment for the territorial divisions of the fire service operating in all municipalities of the republic that are part of the Russian Arctic. Part of these funds will go toward purchasing municipal and snowplow equipment for Vorkuta, Inta and the Ust-Tsilemsky District, and the other part will reimburse the costs of repairing local roads and streets in Usinsk and building an urgent care and obstetric center in the village of Kolva. 
According to experts, the Arctic territories of the Komi Republic have significant potential which could not be fully tapped until recently. But setting clear, locally-specific priorities to restart growth, the practical implementation of which will be supported by federal funding, will open up new economic and social prospects for the polar region. 
Russian engineers to develop armored vehicles for the Arctic 
Russia will develop various special-purpose armored vehicles for military units in the Arctic zone. 
The Russian Armed Forces plan to build and expand vehicle and tank maintenance facilities in the Arctic regions. Armored vehicles, tanks and other military vehicles will be considerably modified, the number of models will be reduced, and fewer vehicles will be deployed, while retaining combat efficiency. 
We are replacing today’s vehicles with upgraded models and purchasing modern production models. This will help us reach the required share of modern vehicles. Armored vehicles and their weapons that lack the newest technology are being phased out,” Major General Alexander Shestakov, Head of the Main Vehicle and Armor Directorate at the Russian Defense Ministry, said. 
He added that, apart from supplying military units with modern equipment, all weapons and equipment were being standardized by placing them on basic interchangeable platforms. 
We are working to comprehensively re-equip our ground forces with modern weaponry. At the same time, we are implementing research projects to develop advanced weapons and military equipment,” Shestakov noted. 
The Russian Armed Forces have adopted a new type of tank support combat vehicle that can suppress and destroy an enemy’s anti-tank weaponry, tanks and other armored targets. 
Deploying these combat vehicles will enhance the combat efficiency and survivability of tanks. 
The engineers are working to develop advanced tanks, tracked and wheeled infantry fighting vehicles and armored personnel carriers under the Armata, Kurganets-25 and Boomerang research projects. 
The purpose of these projects is to develop new combat vehicles and platforms (base chassis) for future weapons systems, military and special-purpose equipment for the armed services and other service branches. 
A light-weight, articulated, tracked all-terrain vehicle (ATV) is being developed for military units in the Arctic zone. Engineers continue to upgrade the articulated tracked Vezdesushchy (Omnipresent) line of ATVs, the Arktika two-section standardized platform and related logistics support vehicles, as well as army snowmobiles, all-terrain motorcycles and ATVs with low-pressure tires. 
The Defense Ministry is focusing on the procurement of weapons and equipment for repair and maintenance units. Armored repair and maintenance vehicles with standardized platforms make it possible to consolidate, standardize and mass-produce these vehicles more quickly. It also reduces manufacturing costs and uses assembly plants more efficiently. 
Murmansk Region issues over 120 certificates under Your Home in the Arctic program 
The Government of the Murmansk Region has summed up the interim results of the Your Home in the Arctic regional program, under which more than 4,000 applications have been received and processed since July. 
As of today, 126 certificates have been issued for a total amount of 145.5 million rubles. They grant the right to receive a lump-sum cash payment for the construction or purchase of a house, or the purchase of a prefabricated home. Let me remind you that you can get from 1 to 1.5 million rubles under this program. Families with many children, participants in the special military operation and members of their families will have priority when applying for support. And I know that we have the first five ready-made projects,” Governor Andrei Chibis emphasized during a briefing. 
This year, the Murmansk Region allocated a total of 500 million rubles from its budget to implement the Your Home in the Arctic program. 
Details on participating in the program are available in a special section on the website of the regional Ministry of Construction. 
Nuclear-powered icebreaker Yakutia launched in St. Petersburg 
The nuclear-powered icebreaker Yakutia, the fourth Project 22220 ship, was launched at Baltic Shipyard in St. Petersburg. President of Russia Vladimir Putin took part in the ceremony via videoconference. 
The President noted that Project 22220 icebreakers had great strategic significance for exploring and developing the Arctic, for facilitating navigation safety and expanding traffic on the Northern Sea Route, an important global transport corridor. 
He said these ships were part of Russia’s large-scale and systematic work to replenish the icebreaker fleet and to strengthen Russia’s status as a great Arctic power. He said the country would continue to expand its icebreaker fleet with Russia’s own experience, equipment and components. 
The icebreaker Yakutia was laid down in May 2020 when it was christened with its name. This continues the tradition of naming these ships for the Northern Sea Route’s geographic locations. 
The launch of this new multipurpose nuclear-powered icebreaker is symbolic; this significant event is taking place as we mark the 100th anniversary of our republic. We are grateful to our shipbuilders, and we are proud of their work that promotes Russia’s leading position in building icebreakers of this class,” the Head of Yakutia, Aisen Nikolayev, said. 
The icebreaker will be completed at an outfitting quay and is to enter service in December 2024. The Yakutia will join its sister ships, the Sibir and the Ural, the largest nuclear-powered icebreakers in the world, and will replace its predecessors on the Northern Sea Route. 
Russian Deputy Prime Minister Viktoria Abramchenko noted that Russian icebreakers were unique in the world. She mentioned the high environmental standards and the waste-free technology used to build Project 22220 ships. 
Russian engineers use a double-draft technology that allows the icebreakers to operate effectively in Arctic seas and in shallow waters,” the Government of Yakutia said in a statement. 
Two nuclear reactors were installed on the icebreaker prior to launch. These icebreakers use a new modular nuclear reactor that has a greater rated capacity than those of older ships of the project, as well as a new Russian-made electric propulsion system. 
The icebreaker Yakutia has the following specifications: length, 173.3 meters; beam, 34 meters; waterline draft, 10.5 meters; minimum operational draft, 8.55 meters; displacement, 33,540 metric tons. 
Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic to support major industrial and infrastructure projects in Yakutia 
Alexei Chekunkov, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, held a series of meetings in Yakutsk, with discussions on major industrial and infrastructure projects being implemented in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). 
In particular, they considered the Kyuchus deposit mining cluster development in the Arctic zone. The total investment in field development projects, construction of power engineering and infrastructure facilities will amount to at least 235 billion rubles. 
According to Alexei Chekunkov, the promising cluster is directly linked to the development of the Northern Sea Route. 
"The government has adopted a plan for the development of the Northern Sea Route, prepared by our ministry. The volume of traffic along the Northern Sea Route in three years should exceed 100 million tons, and by 2030 – 200 million tons. Projects aimed at the development of field clusters, supply the Northern Sea Route with cargo and create export revenues for Russia. All the technologies to implement a comprehensive approach are in place. We are completing the legal and financial structuring of the project. We will go to the Government with a comprehensive implementation plan. I hope that by the next World Economic Forum (WEF) all the main parameters will be approved," said the Minister after the meeting, noting, however, that such projects as the Kyuchus cluster development deserve to be recognized as priority development areas (PDA). 
We are working on solutions to extend PDAs to the entire Far East, which will enable investors to receive benefits under this preferential regime much faster. 
The investment plan for the cluster's development provides for the construction of a small-capacity nuclear power plant near the village of Ust-Kuyga in the Ust-Yansky District. As noted by President of Yakutia Aysen Nikolaev, it will become the "heart" of the cluster, ensure the operation of industrial facilities, allow geological exploration for tin, gold and coal deposits to begin, and improve people’s quality of life. The facility will replace the existing diesel power plants and coal-fired boilers in the settlements. To provide the energy infrastructure, it is also planned to build five substations and five overhead power transmission lines from the small capacity nuclear power plant to the Kyuchus, Tirekhtyakh, Deputatsky deposits and Ust-Kuyga and Deputatsky settlements. 
There are also plans to build an access road from the Nizhny Bestyakh railway station to the cargo terminal, reconstruct the river ports of Nizhneyansk and Ust-Kuyga, dredge and construct navigational facilities on the Yana River, and build highways. 
In terms of communications, it is planned to build a fiber-optic communication line to the Ust-Yansky District and to reconstruct cellular towers there. Plans also call for building a number of new social facilities, as well as residential complexes for 400 apartments in the settlement of Ust-Kuyga thanks to the implementation of the project. 
The meetings also discussed a project to upgrade four Sakhaneftegazsbyt oil depots which are involved in the northern freight shipping. As Aysen Nikolaev noted, this company is the key participant in the northern delivery operation and the largest owner of the tank farm for fuel storage. The company has 19 oil depots and is 100-percent state-owned. More than 80% of the tank farm for fuel storage was built in the 1960-80s. Over such a long lifespan in extremely harsh climatic conditions, the tanks have developed a large number of defects. 
"It is a serious problem that there is a potential threat of harm to the environment, life and people’s health. Of course, we all remember what a terrible accident Nornickel had: practically an environmental disaster because of the leakage, and Rosprirodnadzor estimated that the accident caused 148 billion rubles’ worth of damage. And we have to do everything to prevent such a hazard in the republic," said the head of the republic. According to him, it is necessary to reconstruct four oil depots in Belaya Gora, Zhigansk, Ust-Kuyga and Khandyga and to invest 6.6 billion rubles for these purposes. 
According to Alexei Chekunkov, the project may make use of the Far Eastern Concession mechanism that is being implemented by the Ministry of the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic and the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic. The concession mechanism makes it possible to accelerate infrastructure development for new enterprises and the social sphere. The state compensates investors up to 100 percent of the estimated cost of an infrastructure facility for at least 10 years after the facility is put into operation. 
"We have three main priorities in terms of applying the Far Eastern Concession mechanisms. First, the projects that are being implemented by order of the President; second, the projects envisaged by the master plans of the Far Eastern cities and third, the infrastructure for the "Far Eastern neighborhoods". Given the peculiarities of the republic and the lack of any alternative to the northern delivery service, I think it is possible that the Far Eastern Concession mechanism could be appropriate for this project. On the whole, we support the project; I ask that the model be finalized. The increase in the cost of the facility to the budget, from the funds it attracts, should not exceed the target inflation rate – four percent per year," the minister said. 
Korchunov: Ban on Arctic oil and gas could undermine stability of global energy market 
A ban on Arctic oil and gas could undermine the stability of the global energy market, said Nikolay Korchunov, Ambassador at Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Chair of the Senior Arctic Officials. 
A ban on oil and gas exploration in the Arctic could undermine the stability of the global energy market and lead to even more serious disruptions than we are already seeing in the European energy sector. It is obvious that we need not adopt artificial restrictions on oil and gas production, but to ensure its stability,” Korchunov said at a plenary meeting of the 4th Northern Sustainable Development Forum. 
He said that the European Union’s Arctic strategy, adopted in October 2021, seeks to ban oil and gas drilling in the Arctic and adjacent territories, as well as the purchase of these energy carriers under an environmental pretext. Nikolay Korchunov noted that many foreign banks currently refuse to fund relevant energy projects in the region. 
It is obvious that the attempts to deal with global climate challenges by introducing artificial restrictions on economic activity in one region do not stand up to scrutiny. When speaking of restrictions of any kind, one needs to understand that the aftermath of these decisions will affect the end users as well, including those in Europe. They will also have a negative impact on the local population and its indigenous people, who need the sustainable economic activity as a basic condition for improving their wellbeing,” Korchunov believes. 
Government backs draft law on permafrost monitoring 
The government has supported a draft law on permafrost monitoring, prepared by the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. 
The Russian Arctic covers six million square km, with hundreds of towns and villages and almost three million people. Of course, people should feel safe living on permafrost,” Russian Minister of Natural Resources Alexander Kozlov said. 
The background monitoring will be part of Roshydromet’s observation network. Specialists from the Arctic Research Institute have already begun to create the first sites. 
Experimental training grounds were created at Cape Baranov and on the Spitsbergen (Svalbard) Archipelago. They drilled 25-meter wells and installed thermistor strings in there, data from which being continuously transmitted to the institute via satellite channels. In the future, they will not only measure the temperature at different depths, but also the icing dynamics and ground surface deformation. There will be 140 such wells-stations in the monitoring network,” Alexander Kozlov said. 
Permafrost degradation data provided by the new system will become the foundation for developing adaptation measures for economic and social sectors. 
Now the draft law will be submitted to the State Duma for consideration. According to the minister, within six months of its approval, the government will have to adopt a procedure to integrate permafrost monitoring into the existing state environmental monitoring system. 
Russia is creating an integrated permafrost monitoring system at the initiative of Alexander Kozlov, head of the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. The minister said that scientists would be able to predict the consequences and learn to prevent accidents in the permafrost zone based on the data they obtain. 
The Arctic has a huge impact on the global climate. It is important for us to understand and predict the processes taking place here, and for this we need a reliable basis - accurate scientific data and forecasts,” the minister commented. 
Four Arctic regions to receive a one-time subsidy to develop social infrastructure 
The Government will distribute about 2.6 billion rubles among four Arctic regions to be used for developing social infrastructure. 
The Government continues to support the development of the Arctic regions. The President underscored that addressing socioeconomic and infrastructure issues in the Arctic was a priority. A directive has been signed to distribute over 2.6 billion rubles among four Russian regions: the Republic of Komi, the Chukotka Autonomous Area, and the Arkhangelsk and Murmansk regions,” Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said at a staff meeting with his deputies on Monday. 
These funds will be used to build and repair education, sports and cultural facilities, to buy buses, ambulances and medical equipment, as well as to bring the roads up to code. The money is allocated as a one-time subsidy designed to promote the social development of economic growth centres. 
The mechanism that now covers the Arctic has been in use in the Far Eastern Federal District for more than four years and is used to build kindergartens, schools, hospitals, rural health posts, and athletic grounds. 
It is imperative to make sure that the people living in such a harsh climate receive good education and high-quality medical care, and have the opportunity to spend their leisure time interestingly and productively, and to attend cultural events and play sports,” Mishustin went on to say. 
Rise in Chukotka’s production of coal, gold, silver and natural gas 
In 2022, the Chukotka Autonomous Area increased coal output by 60 percent on 2021 levels. 
In January-October, the Fandyushkinskoye Polye deposit yielded over 1.3 million metric tons of coal. Since early 2022, the resident of the Chukotka priority development area provided the area’s communities with solid-state fuel, and it also delivers coal to several countries in the Asia Pacific region,” the area government’s press service said. 
The Beringovsky port will ship over 1 million tons of coal for the first time since early 2022. 
It is possible to expand coal production still further because the enterprise’s reserves and capacities allow this, and the new coal-processing factory makes our coal competitive on many markets. On November 8, the investor was granted permission to modernize the Beringovsky seaport by the Main Department of State Expert Examinations (Glavgosexpertiza). When this investment project is completed, coal shipments will increase to 2 million tons per year, and the port will handle 85 ships annually,” Governor Roman Kopin said. 
The area also boosted production of other minerals. Local mines provided 17.9 tons of gold, or 13 percent less on 2021. The area also produced out 75.7 tons of silver or 82 percent of 2021 volumes, as well as 52.16 million cubic meters of natural gas since early 2022. 
Putin: LNG production in the Russian Arctic is a key area of cooperation with China 
According to Vladimir Putin, Russia and China have achieved a very high level of bilateral ties in the oil and gas, coal and power-generating sectors. 
We are purposefully implementing large-scale joint projects to build nuclear power plants in China and to produce liquefied natural gas in the Russian Arctic,” he emphasized in his welcoming address to the participants in the Russian-Chinese Energy Business Forum. 
In addition, the President drew attention to the business forum’s role in expanding cooperation in the energy sector. The forum ensures regular dialogue between representatives of state agencies, leading industry corporations, banking organisations and expert communities of the two countries. The compilation of the Russia-China Energy Cooperation Investment Atlas is a highly important aspect of the forum’s activities. 
I sincerely wish you success and all the best,” Putin concluded. 
The icebreaker Ural to sail on first mission from Murmansk 
The multirole nuclear-powered icebreaker Ural sailed out from Murmansk in an impressive setting, and it is now heading for the Kara Sea. 
I would like to emphasize that 90 percent of the icebreaker’s equipment is Russian-made, and the ship has a 40-year service life. Russia will feel confident in the Arctic basin for 100, not 40, years,” Deputy Rosatom General Director Vyacheslav Ruksha said. 
On December 3, Nuclear Icebreaker Fleet Day, the ship will sail on its maiden voyage and will be operating in the Ob-Yenisei district of the Kara Sea. 
According to Rosatom sources, the new nuclear-powered icebreaker’s first mission will have great significance for the long-term expansion of navigation on the Northern Sea Route, one of the most promising new global transport corridors. 
The active use of this transport artery will allow Russia to establish cost-effective logistics routes and to unlock its export potential more fully. This will also influence the comprehensive development of Russia’s Arctic and Far Eastern regions. 
Last week, on November 22, the Russian flag was raised aboard the Ural. The Yakutia, the third Project 22220 icebreaker, was launched the same day. 
Emergencies Ministry to expand network of Arctic rescue centers 
The Russian Ministry of Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief is planning to expand its chain of rescue centers in the Arctic. Emergencies Minister Alexander Kurenkov said this while inspecting the work of the Arkhangelsk Arctic Rescue Center whose personnel facilitate navigation safety in the White Sea and near the Solovetsky Islands. 
The ministry’s top priorities include increasing Arctic safety during the development of industrial projects, the Northern Sea Route and tourism; we will also expand the network of Arctic rescue centers, the minister added. 
According to Kurenkov, the ministry will send out an Arctic expedition in the spring of 2023 where it will test new equipment. The managers of the Arkhangelsk Arctic Rescue Center told the minister about their needs. First, they requested hovercraft and other new rescue vehicles that can operate in the harsh Arctic climate. Russian companies can manufacture this equipment. 
Today, the Arkhangelsk Arctic Rescue Center has 17 ships, including hovercrafts, 20 pieces of automobile, special-purpose and engineering equipment, and five unmanned remote-controlled submersibles. The center’s personnel facilitate safe navigation in the Arkhangelsk Region, in inland waters and in the adjacent White, Barents and Kara seas. The center’s specialists can redeploy to any Russian region in the event of a major emergency. In the past five years, they have rescued about 1,000 people and have conducted over 2,300 search and rescue operations. 
Arkhangelsk Region to get another 917 million rubles for social projects in 2023 
The Arkhangelsk Region will receive a single subsidy of 917 million rubles from the federal budget to implement four social projects in 2023. 
Several projects were supported at once at a meeting of the State Commission for Arctic Development. Thanks to this, we will be able to build even more healthcare facilities, extracurricular education centers for children, and community improvement projects. The total amount of the project funding for 2023 is 917 million rubles,” Arkhangelsk Region Governor Alexander Tsybulsky said on his Telegram channel. 
On Tuesday, the Arkhangelsk Region governor took part in a meeting of the Presidium of the State Commission for Arctic Development, which was held in Moscow and chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Yury Trutnev. The governor presented a draft plan for the social development of the economic growth centers of the Arkhangelsk Region in 2023. 
The single subsidy mechanism launched in the Far East makes it possible to build social infrastructure, such as hospitals, schools and housing, where new investment projects are underway and enterprises under construction. 
To attract federal budget funding in 2023, the Arkhangelsk Region leadership has chosen four projects in three areas that are important for the region and its residents: creating a comfortable urban environment, extracurricular education and healthcare. 
According to the regional government’s press service, there are several initiatives, including the first stage of the reconstruction of Trade Unions Square in Arkhangelsk, which will improve the quality of the urban environment and emphasize the beauty and individuality of Arkhangelsk’s historical center. The project is to be implemented in three phases between 2023 and 2025. 
Another project that will receive additional support is the third stage of the overhaul of the Palace of Children's and Youth Art in the regional capital. At the State Commission’s meeting, two healthcare projects were also supported: a major overhaul of the admission and diagnostic department of the Volosevich First City Clinical Hospital, where more than 6,000 urgent surgeries are performed annually. Funding will also go to a project to build urgent care centers in the villages of Verkhnyaya Zolotitsa and Letnyaya Zolotitsa, Primorsky District, Arkhangelsk Region. 
Passenger transportation on snow and swamp buggies begins in Chukotka 
A transport company has launched passenger and freight transportation on snow and swamp buggies in the Anadyr Region, Chukotka. 
The Kayur company has started providing services for the transportation of passengers and cargo in the Anadyr Region. A resident of the Chukotka priority development territory set up the new enterprise that will operate year-round by acquiring two snow and swamp vehicles capable of overcoming impassable conditions in any season. It is planned to transport at least 100 tons of cargo per year,” the regional government reports. 
To date, 11.6 million rubles have been invested in the project. 
Transport accessibility is an urgent issue in the region. During fall and winter, cyclones descend on the region, bringing storm and hurricane-force winds, which often disrupt air traffic in Chukotka. Due to the harsh climate, paved roads are only available in cities and nearby villages. In the rest of the region, winter roads are used. They are unpaved, and movement is only possible in winter on packed snow. With the upcoming fall and winter, cyclones come to the region, storm and hurricane winds blow, which often disrupts air traffic in Chukotka.[М1] 
The Khishchnik snow and swamp buggies are designed specifically for such difficult conditions. The capacity of each cabin is about 1,500 kg, accommodating up to 12 passengers. Due to the ultra-low-pressure tires, the all-terrain vehicle can move without damaging soil and vegetation. It can drive through swampy shallow waters or a proper swamp, ford a river or a small lake without sinking, and traverse fresh snow. 
Original name of Novaya Zemlya’s tallest peak to be restored 
The tallest peak on the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago will soon get its original name, Mount Krusenstern, back. 
We are completing our work to give back to the tallest peak of the Russian island Arctic its historical name, Mount Krusenstern. Fyodor Litke gave it that name 200 years ago,” said Commander of the Russian Navy Nikolai Yevmenov at The Arctic: Today and the Future forum. 
According to the Russian Geographical Society, Litke discovered this mountain in 1822 in the northwestern part of what is now Severny (Northern) Island. Its name disappeared from geographical maps and atlases in the early 20th century. 
In the past five years, the Russian Geographical Society and the Northern Fleet have organized and conducted several expeditions near Novaya Zemlya. Expedition members scaled archipelago’s peaks, including a 1,547-meter tall mountain. In early August 2022, a team of mountain climbers from the Russian Defense Ministry’s 12th Main Directorate and the Northern Fleet, the National Defense Control Center, Rosatom and the Russian Geographical Society also scaled this mountain. Members of the team installed a commemorative plaque, as well as the Russian state flag and the Russian Navy’s St. Andrew pennant, on top of the peak. 
Chinese Embassy: China is interested in cooperating with Russia on Northern Sea Route 
Minister Counsellor of the Chinese Embassy in Russia Liu Qinghua said at the international forum, The Arctic: Today and the Future, that China is interested in cooperating with Russia on the Northern Sea Route. She delivered her speech in the Russian language. 
According to the Minister Councellor, China is ready to make every effort to support Russia’s initiatives on cooperation in the Arctic. 
I am very happy to hear from you [speakers at the forum] that Russia is very interested in developing cooperation with China in the use and construction of the Northern Sea Route. I think that you see that we have the same interest. So, we are ready to cooperate with you in this area,” Liu Qinghua said. 
She noted that boosting cooperation on the Northern Sea Route is one of the priorities outlined by the leaders of Russia and China. She also said that China is looking forward to the successful opening of the Northern Sea Route to China. 
The Chinese official emphasized that the development of the Northern Sea Route will definitely facilitate the further development of Arctic infrastructure and the use of resources, expand the social and economic development of the coastal waterways for promoting a [MOU1] long-term and sustainable development of the Arctic region; it will also encourage and influence the creation of the future architecture of international trade.” 
Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador at Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Chair of the Committee of Senior Officials under the Arctic Council, said earlier that China showed great interest in the development of scientific and technical cooperation in the Arctic, and that Russia supports Beijing in this effort. 
Korchunov: The Arctic will play a greater role in promoting the global energy transition 
The Arctic’s energy resources make it possible to predict its growing role in ensuring the global energy transition, said Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry and Chair of Arctic Council’s Committee of Senior Officials. 
We can confidently predict that the Arctic will play a greater role in promoting the global energy transition to a low-emission economy, primarily due to the presence of strategically important critical materials and resources in the Arctic <...>, as well as resources that are in demand in the context of the development of hydrogen and renewable energy,” he said at the forum The Arctic: Present and Future. 
Korchunov noted that Russia has reservations about attempts by non-Arctic countries and structures to restrict economic activity, including Arctic maritime logistics in high latitudes, which negatively affects the development of the northern regions. 
He added that the Arctic Council documents emphasize how important it is to diversify economic activity and ensure it is environmentally friendly and resource efficient. The Arctic is becoming a territory for creating and testing advanced energy-efficient technologies. 
State Duma to simplify development of Arctic and Far Eastern hectares 
The State Duma adopted in the second reading a draft law that would simplify document processing for housing construction on the land received under the Arctic Hectare and Far Eastern Hectare programs. 
The draft law was submitted to the State Duma in December 2021. It suggests amending the laws on the specifics of allocating land plots in the Arctic zone of Russia and other territories in the North, Siberia and the Far East, as well as the Urban Planning Code. 
The authors of the initiative said the law enforcement monitoring of the current law revealed the need for additional specification of its provisions. Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin noted earlier that citizens who received hectares under the relevant programs faced difficulties in developing these plots, especially in building houses on them. He said their permit applications are often rejected on formal grounds due to the absence of endorsed urban planning documents. 
The draft law suggests creating an opportunity to build an individual house or a garden house on a plot of land granted free of charge <...> based on the parameters in the planned and completed construction notices, provided that the relevant bodies are not authorized to check if these parameters conform to the rules of land use and construction,” reads an explanatory note to the draft. 
The initiative also removes the obligation of citizens who received a plot to present a declaration on its use three years after the beginning of its development. Moreover, they will be able to choose a type of permitted land use over the course of two years rather than one, as established today. 
In addition, the authorized bodies will receive the right to form land plots through a simplified procedure by using the federal information system To the Far East. 
Drifting weather buoys to start collecting meteorological data in Russian Arctic seas by 2024 
In the next 12 months, Russia will deploy a network of high-precision weather buoys and meteorological stations in the high-seas and coastal sections of its Arctic zone. 
We will set up an observation system using drifting weather buoys. These are special devices that we will deploy in preset areas of the Arctic Ocean. They will relay basic oceanographic data on drifting sea-ice formations, water and air temperatures, atmospheric pressure, salinity levels, the thickness of snow and ice layers, etc. This data is vital for our weather forecasts,” Alexander Makarov, director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute , told journalists. 
There are plans to install modern drifting and stationary Russian-made measuring devices in all Russian Arctic seas, including along the Northern Sea Route’s shipping lanes, by early 2024. 
According to Makarov, seven drifting weather buoys have already been installed. They transmit data to the World Snow and Ice Data Center every hour via communications satellites. The data is processed and relayed to the database of the Russian Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Roshydromet). 
Russia will deploy an additional 42 weather stations in its Arctic zone throughout 2023. In general this network is to be upgraded until 2035. 
We will mostly upgrade eastern Arctic weather stations, including the remotest high-seas sectors and islands. This sector is crucial for expanding year-round navigation via the Northern Sea Route,” Makarov noted. 
The deployment of drifting and stationary stations will make it possible to monitor the region’s ice and meteorological parameters every hour; this will facilitate more accurate weather forecasts for safer navigation. 
Rapid data transmission will help check online ship routes and provide highly accurate digital forecasts for future navigation,” Makarov said. The meteorological network will provide additional opportunities for research projects, he added. 
Yakutia researchers create audiovisual collection of Arctic endangered languages 
Researchers from the Institute for Humanities Research and Indigenous Studies of the North at the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences have created an audiovisual collection of the dialects of the Even and Tundra Yukaghir languages. 
The audio and video recordings on the institute’s website are available and fit for use in teaching the Even and Tundra Yukaghir languages and folklore in general educational schools, as well as secondary and higher educational institutions, which will help preserve these disappearing languages,” the institute press service reported. 
The head of the project, Sardana Sharina (Ph.D. in Philology), noted that the collection includes a section on the oral folk art of Evens, materials on undescribed dialects and sub-dialects of the Even language, and folklore of the Tundra Yukaghir language. 
Representatives of the institute said that there are plans to develop an audiovisual collection for all Even regions in Yakutia and the language of forest Yukaghirs, as well as language materials on Russian regions. 
The project was carried out under the state program for the preservation and development of state and official languages in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) in 2020-2024. 
According to the RAS Institute of Linguistics, the Even language (it belongs to the Tungus-Manchu language group and is widespread in the Far East) is spoken by over 5,000 people. About 30 people speak the Tundra Yukaghir language (in Yakutia and the Magadan Region). Both languages are endangered. 
Federation Council adopts law to ease the use of Far Eastern and Arctic land 
The Federation Council has adopted a law to ease the use of land granted as part of the Far Eastern Hectare and the Arctic Hectare programs, as well as dealing with the issues related to the construction of housing in these areas. 
Those who take possession of land plots under the above programs can now build or reconstruct a house or a country house assuming the land plots provided to them as part of these programs and for which land use and construction rules have not yet been approved. 
The law also reduces the period after which the land can be given for lease or into ownership from 5 to 4.5 years. 
The period for submitting an application on the opted type of use intended for the land after signing a contract has been increased from one to two years, and the obligation to submit a declaration for land use to the relevant authorities revoked. 
According to the conclusion of the Federation Council Committee on Federal Structure, Regional Policy, Local Government and Northern Affairs, the law will encourage citizens to develop the land plots they receive in the Arctic zone and in other areas of the North, Siberia and the Far East, and increase demand for them due to improving a procedure of granting land plots. 
New airport terminal opens in Novy Urengoi 
An airport terminal with a total area of 19,600 square meters opened in test mode in Novy Urengoi. The terminal was designed to look like traditional tents or huts of the indigenous people of the North. 
Governor of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area Dmitry Artyukhov, Deputy Head of the Federal Air Transport Agency Vladimir Poteshkin and Director General of the management company Regional Airports, Yevgeny Chudnovsky, took part in the opening of the terminal. The officials met a test flight from Salekhard. 
The new airport facility will be the first fully equipped air terminal in Yamal. The airport with 12 check-in counters and five boarding gates will be able to process up to 840 passengers per hour. 
The terminal has everything to make passengers comfortable: cafes, shops, a mother and child room and a children’s play area. There are 11 elevators, including one for passengers with limited mobility, and four escalators. Equipment for screening, check-in and passenger service has been installed. The new luggage system has 350 meters of conveyor belts and is capable of handling up to 540 pieces of luggage per hour. 
As noted, the building has been fully adapted to the conditions of the Far North and has three heated jetways, which will allow passengers to comfortably board a plane. Also, the terminal is equipped with a warm bus gate, designed for boarding and disembarking plane shuttlebus passengers indoors. 
Dmitry Artyukhov emphasized that not only Novy Urengoi residents, but also people from nearby towns and districts have been waiting for the new terminal. The governor thanked the large team that worked on the airport – the engineers, contractors, and the road builders that renovated the runway. 
For northerners, flying is a necessity, and of course, flying conditions should be the best. Five years ago we came up with this project, but for many people it seemed impossible, there was a lot of skepticism. But we succeeded – now we have not only a unique new terminal, but also an entire renovated airport. This means that security issues that are largely invisible to passengers were improved – for example, we have the best and most modern lighting equipment installed. I am very pleased with what I saw today, but the main assessment will be given by people tomorrow, when flights begin to operate from the new terminal,” said the head of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area at the opening ceremony. 
The construction of the terminal lasted exactly two years and involved more than 800 builders and over 30 units of large construction equipment. A boiler house with a capacity of 20 MW was built to service the terminal. In parallel, the station square was improved, with parking for 300 cars created. 
As Yevgeny Chudnovsky noted, the airport modernization project was somewhat complicated. 
Much was done here for the first time. This is the first airport infrastructure modernization project in Russia implemented under a concession agreement. The large airfield project was carried out under the short construction season and between flights without closing the airport. For the first time in this climatic zone, jetways were installed and will be used. And of course, we have this unique architecture that embodies the idea of ​​warmth and comfort, which is so often lacking in the harsh conditions of Yamal,” said Yevgeny Chudnovsky. 
On December 26, test operations of the new terminal will begin, and all flights will be transferred to this new terminal. Starting in January, Aeroexpresses will start running between the railway station in Novy Urengoi and the new airport. If you have tickets for a plane or a long-distance train, you can ride the Aeroexpress train for free. 
The Government will spend almost 40 billion rubles on the Ivan Frolov 
The Government will spend almost 40 billion rubles on the Ivan Frolov 
The Government will allocate 39.7 billion rubles to build the Ivan Frolov research ship. 
Russia continues to upgrade its research fleet. Plans include the new Ivan Frolov research vessel. From 2023 to 2028, 39.7 billion rubles will be allocated to build the ship. The Government’s press service reports that Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin signed a resolution to this effect. 
The ship will serve Russian research stations in the Antarctic and the Arctic. The new vessel, with a displacement of about 25,000 tons, will have 20 research laboratories and a helipad to accept Mi-8, Mi-38 and Ka-32 helicopters. The research vessel will be able to deliver equipment and other cargo to polar explorers and carry up to 170 researchers to the poles. The loading equipment will allow the vessel to land an expedition on an unequipped coast or onto the ice. 
Depending on the needs and priorities of the research in the polar latitudes, scientists aboard the Ivan Frolov will be able to pursue various types of projects, including studying the ocean floor, atmospheric phenomena and even outer space. 
Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic to support reindeer breeding and modernization of greenhouse facilities in the Nenets Autonomous Area 
The Russian Government has allocated around 500 million rubles this year in state support for the traditional economic activities of the small-numbered indigenous peoples in the Russian Arctic. According to the Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the program has funded three production facilities and a reindeer hide processing workshop in Nelmin-Nos. 
In 2023, the Government plans to fund the purchase and modernization of slaughter facilities as well as reindeer product processing facilities for reindeer farms. This comprehensive approach to reindeer breeding development will ensure year-round supplies for local residents and create conditions for storing reindeer products in compliance with sanitary regulations. Higher production volumes will lower prices. 
Small-numbered indigenous peoples constitute our cultural heritage. Countries around the world place high emphasis on preserving the customs and lifestyle of indigenous peoples. It is pleasing to see that the ministry’s programs supporting the economic activity of the northern indigenous communities bring benefits. We will continue to work together on supplementary decisions to boost the effectiveness of these programs and produce specific results,” Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov noted at a meeting with Governor of the Nenets Autonomous Area Yury Bezdudny on the region’s socioeconomic development. 
There are currently 29 reindeer breeding farms operating in the region, with a total head count of more than 174,000 animals. The farms produce more than 1,300 tons of meat every year. One of the most pressing issues hindering the development of the reindeer farms is the shortage of modern equipment capable of moving in the snow. This type of equipment is required for building nomad camps, reindeer herding and protecting herds from predators. The Government is considering the possibility of allocating additional funds from the federal budget to cover these costs. 
During the meeting, the governor and the minister also discussed supporting exports to foreign countries, including Asia. Considering that reindeer meat trading is the backbone industry for the steady development of the small-numbered indigenous peoples, Governor of the Nenets Autonomous Area Yury Bezdudny said it was important to improve the marketing of reindeer meat on the domestic and export markets in order to boost its competitive performance and increase sales. 
We proposed an entire range of measures to support reindeer breeding and hope to receive support from the ministry. The demand for reindeer products is on the rise; however, few people in moderate climates are aware of the benefits of reindeer meat. In fact, its nutritional value should be explored by healthcare facilities. A comprehensive approach is necessary, based on awareness efforts and new regulations incorporating reindeer meat into the meals provided at educational facilities,” the governor stressed. 
The meeting also covered renovation of a greenhouse facility in Naryan-Mar. After the renovation, the facility will be able to supply 457 tons of sheltered ground produce in 2023 and around 1,000 tons in 2024. The project will ensure supplies of a wider variety of fresh produce, which will be available to the local population all year round. 
As Alexei Chekunkov noted, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic already cooperates with regional officials on the majority of growth areas. Many of them are already included in the existing frameworks; therefore, support measures will be prioritized and calibrated to the needs of specific companies. 
First meeting of the State Council working group on Arctic Development to take place in February 2023 
Participants in the first meeting of the State Council working group on transport-logistics and socio-economic development in the Russian Arctic in February 2023 will discuss issues of military garrisons in the Arctic and the extension of the Far East’s support measures to Russia’s Arctic regions. 
We plan to hold a meeting at the beginning of next year, most likely in early February. We have thoroughly analysed the plans with our colleagues. In the Murmansk Region, funding for current projects has increased, and some approaches to development adjusted. We will also talk about our military towns. Military towns – it’s not only about our region because most of them are in the Arctic regions, which makes it more challenging. We also plan to discuss support measures, including subsidized mortgage programs, which have worked well in the Far East. We think they should be used in the Arctic as well,” said Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis in his final news conference of the year. 
He noted that the meeting agenda was being created and would include the working group’s proposals. 
In November, the State Council established a working group on transport-logistics and socio-economic development in the Russian Arctic. One of its main goals is to develop infrastructure along the Northern Sea Route to realize the logistics potential of the Arctic. Andrei Chibis noted that the working group would also review ways of improving living standards in Russia’s Arctic regions. The members of the working group have not yet been named. 
The President signs a law to adjust the land grant process in the Arctic and Far East 
A law to adjust the land grant program in the Arctic and other regions in the North, Siberia and the Far East has been signed by President Vladimir Putin. 
Earlier, the relevant draft law was submitted to the State Duma. It allows for information on the designation of land plots for use in the land grant program to be available through the federal information system, To the Far East.” The law on the specific details of granting land plots which are under state or municipal ownership and that are located in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation and other regions in the North, Siberia and the Far East is being amended. 
According to the draft law’s explanatory notes, the information system is to allow the authorized body to inform an individual if he/she is eligible to apply for ownership or lease of the land plot that he/she is using for free under the law before the expiration of the contract for free use, as well as about the expiration date of the contract. 
The law also establishes a period after which the contract for the free use of a land plot is recognized as not concluded. This is applicable if within 90 days of the issuance of a draft contract to the grantee, the applicant does not return the signed contract to the authorized body. 
Thus, the contract for the free use of land ceases to be valid from the date the authorized body decides to grant the land plot to the applicant under a free ownership agreement or conclude a contract for the sale or lease of the land plot. 
The amendments extend the period when the land holder can choose the type of permitted land use from one to two years. In addition, the authorized body has the right to designate land plots for this purpose through a simplified procedure using the federal information system. 
Tyumen engineers develop equipment for defrosting Arctic power transmission lines 
A Tyumen-based company has started testing automatic defrosters on Arctic power transmission lines. 
Under research and development projects, we have invented equipment for automatically removing frost and rime ice from power transmission lines in the Extreme North and the Arctic, and we have started testing it. By using oscillation inducers, it will be possible to minimize emergency situations on power transmission lines in bad weather. The company will spend over 30 million rubles on implementing the project,” the company Rosseti Tyumen noted in a press release. 
Power facilities are located in heavily inundated and marshy areas, and this causes frost to accumulate on power transmission lines during subzero temperatures. These fragile formations tend to fall off unexpectedly, short-circuiting or damaging the wires or cables and otherwise damaging power transmission lines and disabling them. 
The new equipment is expected to automatically remove accumulated frost during peak loads and to prevent wires from sagging and dancing.” Specialists will operate this prototype equipment until November 2023. This will make it possible to evaluate its real-life performance and to obtain data for further improving the equipment. 
Russian scientists propose a new low temperature casting method 
Researchers at the Tomsk State University of Architecture and Building are experimenting with durable concrete for more effective construction in the low temperature conditions of the Arctic and the Extreme North. 
A series of experiments are being conducted to study heat and mass transfer gradients depending on environmental factors. <…> It is the first such experiments being conducted in Russia. They are extremely important, because they can lead to the creation of more durable concrete at extremely low temperatures,” the university’s press service has reported. 
According to the heat and mass transfer laws, water moves towards a lower temperature, and therefore the gradient of this process must be thoroughly studied. An uneven water distribution throughout a structure will ultimately weaken it. Equal temperatures must be ensured during the heat treatment of concrete. 
The experiments were conducted in a wooden framework into which concrete and cement samples were poured. One wall of the wooden framework was heated to over 60 degrees Celsius, while the opposite wall was cooled to minus 50 degrees. The researchers are also experimenting with various kinds of insulation and framework materials. 
We used electricity for the accelerated heating of concrete, poured it into the framework and moved it outdoors, where it was around -30 ℃ for more than a day. However, thanks to the use of expanded polystyrene insulation, the temperature of the grouting compound was above zero throughout the hardening process. This prevented concrete from freezing, helped it harden and improved its other performance characteristics,” the press release cited project participant Dmitry Sukhorukov as saying. 
The researchers are also studying the effects of mechanical milling on the strength of sand grout and changes in the temperature and strength of concrete made of heated grout during its hardening in different conditions. 
St. Petersburg welcomes more students from Russian Arctic regions 
About 22,540 current students at St. Petersburg’s universities come from Russian Arctic regions, up 5.3 percent or 1,135 persons on the previous year. 
In 2022, 5,960 freshmen from Russian Arctic regions enrolled at St. Petersburg’s universities, up 7.7 percent on 2021. Those studying on full scholarships account for over 50 percent, or 11,646 of the 22,540 Arctic region students ( including bachelor's degree, specialty and master's degree students.) The rest study under commercial or targeted programs,” the Press Service of the St. Petersburg Committee on Arctic Affairs said. 
According to municipal authorities, most students come from the Murmansk and Arkhangelsk regions (4,384 and 4,278 people, respectively), followed by the Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Republic of Karelia, with 3,348 and 2,998 students each. The breakdown for the Komi Republic, the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area and the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) is 2,622, 2,299 and 2,026 people, respectively. 
More students from the Arctic have also enrolled at local vocational training schools, up 5.1 percent from 1,774 to 1,865. In all, 772 students enrolled last year, and 60 percent of them will study on a tuition-paying basis. Most of them have arrived from the Komi Republic (393), the Arkhangelsk Region (308) and the Murmansk Region (301). 
The number of postgraduate students from the Russian Arctic has increased by 4.4 percent, to 729 people. Most Ph.D. hopefuls, or 130 people, due to defend their theses at the city’s research centers, are from the Krasnoyarsk Territory,” the Smolny Press Service noted. 
The St. Petersburg Committee on Arctic Affairs continues to implement a departmental project for expanding the HR potential and training specialists in the northern capital for Russian Arctic regions and local enterprises manufacturing products for the Extreme North regions. 
Haulout documentary by Yakutian directors nominated for Oscar 
Haulout, a film by Yakutian directors Maxim Arbugaev and Evgenia Arbugaeva, received an Oscar nomination for best documentary short film. According to the website of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences, the awards will be presented on March 12. 
The 25-minute documentary tells the story of young biologist Maxim Chakilyov who has spent several months every year for a decade on the shore of Cape Serdtse-Kamen in the Chukchi Sea, where he stays in a rundown hut studying the mass migration of walruses. 
It is the first film Maxim Arbugaev and Evgenia Arbugaeva made together. The brother and sister grew up in Yakutia. Evgenia is a documentary photographer, and Haulout is her first directing gig. Maxim is a director and camera operator with four films in his filmography. 
The film was released on The New Yorker website on November 22. Haulout was named the best original film at the Laurel Branch Festival in Moscow and the best short documentary at the 38th IDA Documentary Awards in Los Angeles. 
Yamal launches online permit service for visitors to protected areas 
The authorities of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area have launched the test mode of a permit-issuing service for those wishing to visit specially protected natural areas in the region. The service is available on the website of the region’s unified cartographic system of the area, and requires a public services account for access. 
To obtain a permit, you must fill out an electronic application form and select a route on the map. The issued permit will be sent to the applicant’s email. When entering a nature park or reserve, all you have to do is show the QR code of the permit on your smartphone; there is no need to print the document. 
In the Year of the Environment, Ingilor, one of the most attractive nature parks in Yamal, significantly expanded its boundaries. We can see an increase in the number of people who want to explore the unique natural regions of the Polar Urals, including the world's largest musk ox breeding ground. One of the priorities of the service is to ensure safe and comfortable visits to our protected areas. Digitization of the permit-issuing service is the first step in making eco-tourism more accessible for residents and guests of our region,” said Alexander Gavrilyuk, acting director of the Department of Natural Resources and Environment of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, according to the press service of the regional administration. 
The development of the service is a joint project of the region’s Department of Natural Resources and Environment and the Department of Information Technology and Communications. 
Visiting specially protected natural areas requires a special permit. 
Longest thunderstorm recorded in the high-latitude Arctic 
The longest thunderstorm in the history of observations in the high-latitude Arctic lasted about 55 minutes. The natural phenomenon was recorded by scientists of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute last July at Russia's largest hydrometeorological observatory, Cape Baranov Ice Base on Severnaya Zemlya. 
Specialists note that thunderstorm phenomena, unusual for the high-latitude Arctic, have been recorded in the last few years. 
"The first official data on a thunderstorm in this region were recorded in June 2019 on Bolshevik Island. That thunderstorm lasted 40 minutes. In 2021, scientists observed the atmospheric phenomenon twice – in late June and early July; the thunderstorms lasted 40 and 25 minutes, respectively. In 2022, the thunderstorm period was the longest in the history of observations," says the report on the institute's website. 
Earth’s atmospheric phenomena have been undergoing significant transformations over the past 30 years of observations. The fact that thunderstorm clouds reached the high latitudes of the Arctic is further evidence of changes in atmospheric circulation. 
The main reason for this is climate warming in the Arctic, which has led to the appearance of layered rain (nimbostratus) clouds and powerful cumulus clouds, typical of the middle and southern latitudes. It is these cloud formations that play a key role in the process of thunderstorm cloud generation, the scientists note. 
Where are the glaciers going? Scientists to find out why the landscape of Spitsbergen is changing 
Russian scientists will assess the current state of the glaciers in the Spitsbergen (Svalbard) Archipelago, study the nature of glacial lakes formation and make a forecast for the expansion of new water bodies. 
"Our project aims to study a large-scale natural process – the expansion of glacial lakes in the Spitsbergen Archipelago. Specific aspects of the formation, size and flow regime of these lakes are directly connected with the type of glaciers and the relief of the archipelago’s glacial valleys. About half of the lakes are already formed; that this, they have lost contact with glaciers and have no ice shores. Others interact with glaciers and contribute to the melting of their fronts. Most of the lakes are difficult to access; no one has seen them yet," said Robert Chernov, the project head and a glaciologist of the Institute of Geography at the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
Now there are about 700 glacial lakes in Spitsbergen . Dozens of reservoirs have an area of more than one square kilometer and together make up a significant part of the archipelago's water resources. This is especially important for supplying the Arctic settlements with water all year round. 
"Compared to similar lakes in the mid-latitude mountainous regions, the glacial lakes of Spitsbergen are poorly studied and, in fact, have not been described in quantitative terms. As a result of the project, we will make an inventory of them, providing not only a description of their current condition, but also a forecast for their expansion," added Chernov. 
According to preliminary estimates, Spitsbergen may lose more than half of its glaciers by the end of this century. This means that there will be even more lakes on the archipelago, especially in its northern part, where the relief is flatter. 
"But it is already clear that we are witnessing climate change. Spitsbergen’s landscape is changing literally before our eyes, birds are already nesting near the new lakes and the landscape as a whole is becoming more beautiful and friendly," Robert Chernov stressed. 
Children of the Arctic recreation program to begin accepting applications on April 1 
The Arkhangelsk Region continues to implement the Children of the Arctic federal program that was launched last year. The regional authorities plan to increase the funding of the program so that even more children would be able to spend their summer break in an interesting and educative way. 
According to Olesya Starzhinskaya, deputy head of the local government, applications will be accepted starting April 1 through the regional portal of government and municipal services, as well as at government service centers and social protection departments. 
In 2022, over 2,000 students in grades 5 through 8 from nine municipal entities of the Russian Arctic regions took part in the program. Children spent their vacation at summer camps in Anapa and Sochi; for many, it was their first trip to the Black Sea. 
The program is financed by the regional government. School students from Arctic territories are provided with free accommodation at Russian summer resorts. 
Brazilian ambassador to Russia: Brazil plans to become an observer country in the Arctic Council 
Brazil wants to become an observer in the Arctic Council, with the country showing great interest in the Arctic. 
Brazil is interested in becoming part of the Arctic Council, becoming an observer country. We have a special interest in the Arctic and in all the opportunities that exist there,” Brazilian Ambassador to the Russian Federation Rodrigo de Lima Baena Soares told reporters after his meeting with Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrey Chibis. 
The Murmansk Region governor noted that the participation of a South American country in the Arctic Council could be very useful, given the partnership and friendly ties between Russia and Brazil. 
The Arctic Council is an intergovernmental organization of Arctic states. The member states include Russia, Denmark (with Greenland and the Faroe Islands), Iceland, Canada, Norway, the US, Finland, and Sweden. In 2021, when the 25th anniversary of the association was celebrated, the two-year chairmanship passed from Iceland to the Russian Federation. In March 2022, the Western countries froze cooperation within the Arctic Council due to the events in Ukraine, however, as Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry, emphasized, Russia is successfully implementing its chairmanship program even without them. 
Vladimir Putin, oceanologist discuss Northern Sea Route prospects and global cooling 
President Vladimir Putin spoke with Alexander Osadchiyev, a young oceanologist, who explained how general changes in the Arctic Ocean influenced navigation on the Northern Sea Route (NSR). Vladimir Putin said this was very important. According to Vladimir Putin, optimal NSR routing passes through Russian waters. However, the most efficient routing depends on how the situation develops, and it is critical to understand where the best navigation route is, he noted. 
He asked the scientist how many months a year the Northern Sea Route could remain open for navigation, considering the fluctuating size of ice formations. 
Osadchiyev explained that the process depends on many factors and that it is difficult to predict. It’s like a weather forecast: we can predict the weather for the next three weeks, but three-month forecasts are not possible,” he said. 
In reply, Vladimir Putin noted the varying opinions on the size of future Arctic ice formations, which include both a possible reduction and an eventual expansion. 
Some experts believe that the peak of global warming is now over, and that average temperatures will now start gradually declining, Vladimir Putin added. 
During the discussion, he noted that the Ministry of Transport should study the survey more closely in the context of its practical applications. 
Government expands priority development area in Murmansk Region 
Mikhail Mishustin has signed a resolution on expanding the Capital of the Arctic priority development area in the Murmansk Region. The document will make it possible to begin construction of a logistics center that will attract 46.4 billion rubles in private investment and create more than 700 new jobs. 
"A container terminal for international transit maritime freight traffic will be built in the new sections of the priority development area. It will be used to transship cargo to ice-class ships that can operate along the Northern Sea Route. The work on constructing the logistics center will be completed by 2026," the Russian Government's website reports. 
As of today, nine residents are implementing their projects in the Capital of the Arctic priority development area. Their total investment totals 129.9 billion rubles. In addition, the companies have created around 2,600 jobs. 
A priority development area is a special tool designed to stimulate the development of priority sectors of the economy and attract new investors. Its residents enjoy a wide range of benefits and preferences, including reduced tax rates and insurance premiums, as well as a free customs zone procedure. 
Latin American and Persian Gulf ambassadors learn about Russian Arctic projects 
Members of the organizing committee of Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship introduced the heads of diplomatic missions of Latin American and Persian Gulf countries to key Russian projects for Arctic development. 
From the Russian side, the event was attended by representatives of the Ministry for the Development of the Far East, the Foreign Ministry, the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation, and the Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North, Siberia and the Far East of the Russian Federation. 
We are witnessing the rise of global attention to the Arctic region. Here, climate warming is four times faster than the global average. Climate change creates conditions to develop Arctic shipping. New technological solutions, including in energy, as well as transport development, make it possible to develop deposits of hydrocarbons and critical materials that are in demand for the global energy transition. The Arctic is becoming a territory of great opportunities for interaction between various states and organizations in the interests of sustainable development, environmental cooperation and scientific cooperation,” said Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador at Large of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation and Chair of the Senior Arctic Officials. 
The diplomat invited the Latin American and Persian Gulf countries to cooperate under the project of the Snezhinka international research station in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, and also drew their attention to the Rosatom State Corporation’s projects in the field of creating low-power nuclear power plants. 
We believe the key priorities in our work are to ensure a high quality of life and the well-being of the people in the Arctic, environmental protection, preservation of the native lands and traditional way of life of indigenous peoples living in the Russian Arctic zone, development of the Arctic zone as a strategic resource base and its rational use in order to accelerate the economic growth of Russia, and the development of the Northern Sea Route as a global logistics route,” First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic Gadzhimagomed Huseynov said at the meeting. 
According to Huseynov, comprehensive work to explore and sustainably develop the Arctic will continue even after Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship is over, and it will intensify every year. Gadzhimagomed Huseynov also recalled that the Russian Arctic was declared a territory with preferential business regimes, which allow for using customs benefits within the free customs zone, mechanisms for subsidizing the construction of infrastructure for investment projects, and other tax benefits and non-tax preferences. 
Currently, over 630 investment projects are being implemented in the Arctic under the system of preferences, with agreements accounting for 1.6 trillion rubles in investment, said Director-General of the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation Nikolai Zapryagayev. According to him, the largest number of projects concerned the services sector, construction, mining, logistics and tourism. Investment projects in the mining industry attracted the largest amount of investment – 42 projects totaling almost 800 billion rubles – followed by the oil and gas chemical industry (207 billion rubles) and logistics (120 billion rubles). 
The Arctic plays a huge role in the development of both the Russian and global economies. In line with the instructions of President of Russia Vladimir Putin, the region is implementing unique support programs for investment projects. Russia is open for joint work on them with all interested partners within current or future Arctic projects,” Nikolai Zapryagayev stressed. 
Russia is co-chairing the Arctic Council in 2021–2023. The comprehensive program of the Russian chairmanship is aimed at promoting cooperation to improve the well-being and quality of life of people living of the Arctic, including the indigenous peoples of the North, their adaptation to the effects of climate change, preserving Arctic biodiversity and unique ecosystems, ensuring socioeconomic development, finding solutions for global energy and transport security, and advancing scientific Arctic cooperation. 
Polar Day to be held at Pristine Russia festival 
The Pristine Russia festival will host Polar Day to show-case what can be seen in the Arctic specially protected natural areas and to highlight how important it is to take care of them. The festival will take place in Moscow, in the halls of the Union of Artists of Russia in the New Tretyakov Gallery on Krymsky Val. 
Polar Day will open on February 19. Film screenings, lectures and quizzes on nature await adult and young visitors of the festival throughout the day. 
12:15 Specialists from the Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution of the Russian Academy of Sciences will talk about what is being done today to protect whales. The protection of two species of whales is a priority of the Conservation of Biodiversity and Development of Ecological Tourism federal project of the Ecology national project. 
13:00 Olga Krever, Deputy Head of the Roszapovedcenter of the Ministry of Natural Resources of Russia; Alexander Gruzdev, Director of the Wrangel Island Nature Reserve; and Vladimir Chernook, representative of Ecofactor, will talk about the Polar Bear Censusing carried out in 2022. The main purpose of the research is to monitor polar bears, clarify their number, update information on the age and sex structure of the subspecies, and assess the state of this population of the largest land predator and its habitats on the island. 
14:00 Member of the Russian Geographical Society, photographer, air and ground videographer Vladimir Filippov will talk about the unique challenges and rewards of filming documentaries in the Arctic. 
14:30 Director of the Russian Arctic National Park (Arkhangelsk Region) Alexander Kirilov will talk about the historical and cultural heritage of this region. 
15:00 Employees of the Pasvik Nature Reserve (Murmansk Region) will talk about the nature protection of the trilateral border and the Far North. 
15:30 Festival guests will learn about the various inhabitants of the Bear Islands Reserve (Sakha Republic): deer, Siberian cranes, polar bears, and whales. 
16:00 Employees of the Kytalyk National Park, also located in Yakutia, will give a talk on the long migration route of the Siberian crane, which is classified as one of the rarest species of wildlife in the world. The lecture Restoration of the Ob population of the Siberian crane in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area” will also address the conservation of the Siberian crane. 
16:30 Representatives of the World Wildlife Fund will talk about the role of specially protected natural areas in the conservation of biodiversity in the Arctic. 
17:00 Soyuzmultfilm film studio will present a new animated series, Umka. Maria Savinykh, the studio’s creative director, and her colleagues will share the secrets of animation in recreating the nature and spirit of the Arctic. 
In addition to this, from 11 am to 18 pm, visitors to Polar Day can enjoy a film program. It will begin with the film I Am a Polar Bear” directed by Maxim Pervakov. The film chronicles Russian scientists’ work in the Arctic and the long-term study of the polar bear in the protected archipelagos of Novaya Zemlya and Franz Josef Land. Afterwards, the audience will see popular science films from the series Fyodor Konyukhov’s Ecumene” and pictures about the conservation of rare species of wildlife in the Arctic protected areas. 
For visitors with children, there will be a game room and workshops: specialists from the Lena Pillars National Park will test all comers for dexterity, strength and endurance and teach them how to play the Yakut national games Khabylyk, Khaamyska, Tyksaan, Tyryynka; employees of the Russian Arctic National Park will help children pack a polar explorer's suitcase,” and representatives of the Pasvik Nature Reserve will teach young guests how to create stone mosaic bears. 
14.30 Young nature fans will be able to watch the Umka cartoon series. 
Moscow’s Museum of Cosmonautics to host lectures on Arctic and Antarctica 
The Memorial Museum of Cosmonautics in Moscow will host four lectures on the Arctic and Antarctica. Anyone can attend by registering on the museum’s website and obtaining a free ticket on the mos.ru website. Every lecture will also be streamed online. 
The lectures are part of the Time of Trailblazers educational program about the Earth. Outstanding geophysicists and geographers, travelers and documentary film makers will address audiences. In all, 12 free lectures are scheduled for Thursdays, every third week of the month, before the year is out. 
The first Arctic lecture is scheduled for February 16. Traveler Vadim Mamontov who organizes tours to the North Pole will talk about his trips to the Russian Arctic, the specifics of visiting the extreme north, and he will offer tips on how to embrace the uninviting climate. 
The next lecture is set for March 16, with journalist and documentary film maker Olga Stefanova being the main speaker. Stefanova, who has taken part in seven expeditions to the South Pole, even spent the winter in Antarctica. She produced four documentaries about the coldest icy continent. Stefanova will talk about how to survive there. She will discuss the working and living conditions of polar explorers and how documentary films are shot during the eternal winter. 
On April 13, aviator and space technology tester Dmitry Stepanyuk will describe how to prepare for difficult ordeals, how to travel around the world and how to launch a balloon for studying the Earth from the Arctic. Stepanyuk has tried to enroll in the cosmonaut squad three times and has trained for space missions. 
Geophysicist Ruslan Zhostkov, Chief Research Associate with the Schmidt Institute of Physics of the Earth, will meet with the museum’s visitors on May 18. He will discuss the steamship Chelyuskin that sank in 1934 and the specifics of the structure of Arctic soils. In 2020, Zhostkov made an important discovery when locating a fissure in the terrestrial crust on the bottom of Yenisei Bay. The scientist received a prize from the Russian Geographical Society for his work. 
Vladimir Minligareyev, Deputy Director for Research at the Academician Fyodorov Institute of Applied Physics, will discuss methods for compiling solar weather forecasts and for near-Earth space. The scientist will talk about his own contribution to establishing a new profession called space meteorology. The lecture is tentatively scheduled for June 15. 
The program of lectures will be posted on the museum’s website and on social media networks. 
Position of Ambassador-at-Large for Arctic Affairs added to U.S. Government 
The U.S. Government has appointed Arctic expert and Alaskan resident Michael Sfraga as Ambassador-at-Large for Arctic Affairs. The decision comes as the Arctic gains prominence in conversations about national security and the environment. 
A law to establish an office for Arctic affairs within the Department of State was submitted to the US Senate back in 2021. In August 2022, the White House administration announced the new position. 
It is worth noting that it was created by presidential executive order, not by law, and it is not entirely clear whether it will remain in the future. 
At present Michael Sfraga is the Chair of the U.S. Arctic Research Commission, to which he was appointed by President Biden in 2021. Sfraga was the founding director of the Polar Institute and concurrently served as Director of the Global Risk and Resilience Program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. He currently serves as the Institute’s Chair and Distinguished Fellow. 
Permafrost researchers to focus on Yamal buildings 
Experts in Salekhard will simultaneously drill five thermometric wells for measuring the temperature of permafrost layers near permanent buildings. This will make it possible to see how these layers respond to climate change. The wells’ equipment will measure the temperature of permafrost layers every three hours at a depth of up to 12 meters. 
The new online system for evaluating the condition of permafrost layers under various buildings in real time will help pinpoint premature melting and prevent possible emergencies. 
Scientists from the Arctic Scientific Research Center have developed a program for assessing load-bearing capacities of foundations with cast-in-place piles. The program is part of the West Siberian Inter-Regional Science and Education Center’s activities. It also meets the tasks of the Science and Universities national project. 
Today, specialists from the Arctic Scientific Research Center are maintaining 28 permafrost-measuring systems under 11 facilities. They are constantly monitoring and analyzing incoming data, and they are developing software for calculating temperature fields, the load-bearing capacity of ground layers and analyzing incoming data,” said Deputy Director of the Arctic Scientific Research Center Artyom Gromadsky. 
An automated geotechnical monitoring pilot project is underway in the Yamal region since 2022. Over 100 thermometric wells have been drilled to date under 14 permanent facilities. Experts will install thermometric equipment inside the wells this coming spring. A website receives and displays data from all equipped wells, with Yamal scientists analyzing it. 
Krasnoyarsk Territory government approves strategy to develop northern and Arctic territories until 2035 
The government of the Krasnoyarsk Territory has approved a strategy for the development of its northern and Arctic territories and support for indigenous small-numbered peoples until 2035. The document specifies the main economic development targets for its northern regions, including developing its mineral resource base and launching major projects, developing major towns and centers of economic growth, building infrastructure, and diversifying the local economy through the promotion of tourism, including eco-, ethnic and extreme tourism, as well as traditional industries. 
Under the updated strategy, over 504 billion rubles are to be invested in the economy of the Krasnoyarsk Territory’s northern regions by 2035, while industrial production in the mining sector is to reach 3.9 trillion rubles. Key financial investments will be directed to major projects such as Vostok Oil, the launch of the Chernogorsky and Norilsk-1 platinum deposits, and the development of the Syradasaisky coal deposit. 
However, growth in production and industry should not come at the expense of the environment. The document states the need to implement a package of measures to reduce environmental impacts, and highlights the Sulfur Project – an initiative of Norilsk Nickel to reduce sulfur dioxide emissions in Norilsk – as a strategic project. 
The Krasnoyarsk Territory’s economic development will provide for improving the local population’s living standards, as unemployment in its northern regions is to decrease to 0.8-3% by 2035, and the average life expectancy, to grow to 77.1 years. 
Russia to develop new weather satellite Arktika-MP starting 2026 
The effort to develop Arktika-MP, a new hydrometeorological satellite, will begin in 2026. The device will provide information on high-latitude Arctic regions. 
Roscosmos State Corporation has plans to develop Arktika-MP, a new-generation hydrometeorological spacecraft that will be a major step forward in terms of the information we get about the Earth’s high-latitude Arctic regions by increasing the number of spectral channels and improving the spatial resolution of the images it takes,” Roscosmos said in a statement. 
According to the corporation, the development is scheduled to begin in 2026. 
In addition, there are plans to build versions three through six of the Arktika-M satellite and launch them into orbit by 2031. 
Arktika is a space hydrometeorological and climate monitoring system designed to monitor the Arctic climate and environment. It needs at least two satellites to become operational. According to Lavochkin Research and Production Center, a tandem of two Arktika-M spacecraft will be able to monitor the Earth’s surface and the Arctic Ocean around the clock in any weather. 
Sergei Lavrov: Arctic coastal states are delineating continental shelf boundaries 
Five Arctic coastal states are negotiating the outer limits of their continental shelf in the Arctic. The Russian Federation’s arguments in the discussion are given due consideration and respect. 
A working process was set in motion many years ago to have five Arctic powers delineate the outer limits of the continental shelf, and there were attempts to derail this effort. However, the arguments we put forward are given due consideration and respect,” Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov said during Government Hour at the State Duma. 
According to the minister, there is no such process underway in Antarctic yet. 
It may well be that this never happens. The Arctic was designated in the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea as a region subject to delineation and establishing territorial seas and the delimitation of the outer limits of the continental shelf. There is nothing of this kind for the Antarctic,” the minister added. 
Russia to hold 42 events in 2023 as part of its Arctic Council chairmanship 
Russia plans to hold 42 events this year as part of its Arctic Council chairmanship. 
We plan to hold 42 events in the following key areas: tourism, the environment, indigenous peoples of the North, and business events (SPIEF, EEF),” according to a presentation by Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov, which he delivered on Friday at the first meeting of the State Council working group on transport, logistics and socioeconomic development in the Russian Arctic. 
The planned events include the Power of Color Tourist Festival as part of closing the ski winter season in Kirovsk, the Teriberka Arctic Festival, and the Bering Strait Festival in the Chukotka Autonomous Area. There will also be events dedicated to indigenous peoples, such as the first International Championship of Traditional Reindeer Breeding in Yakutia. In addition, the second The Arctic: Breaking the Ice National Forum and Festival will be held in Novy Urengoi under the auspices of Russia’s chairmanship. 
Russia to invest some 1.35 billion rubles in the Children of the Arctic program by 2025 
Russia will allocate almost 1.35 billion rubles from the federal budget to implement the Children of the Arctic program in 2023–2025. 
In 2023-2025, [the program] will receive 1.35 billion rubles. In 2022, 500 million rubles came from the federal budget,” according to a presentation by Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov. 
As part of the program, the state will provide schoolchildren in grades 5–8 living in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation with a package tour for 21 days and a return ticket to a vacation destination free of charge. Parents must submit an application for their children to participate in the program. Arctic children have the right to a free vacation once a calendar year. 
We are happy that last year 9,600 children went on vacation at Russia’s southern resorts; the Children of the Arctic program will continue in 2023,” Chekunkov said. 
Russian Academy of Education receives Arctic research center 
The Research Center of the Russian Academy of Education has opened at Murmansk Arctic State University. President of the Russian Academy of Education Olga Vasilyeva and Rector of Murmansk Arctic State University Irina Shadrina signed the agreement last week. 
They signed the agreement online at a university Academic Council meeting. The agreement is to implement joint fundamental and pilot research projects in pedagogics, psychology and other education-related sciences, as well as in innovation projects. 
We find it particularly valuable that the Research Center of the Russian Academy of Education has opened in the Year of the Teacher and Mentor in Russia. We would like to thank our colleagues for their trust,” Rector of Murmansk Arctic State University Irina Shadrina said, while commenting on the opening of the Academy’s Research Center at the university. 
Murmansk Arctic State is the only regional university that offers an education major in the Murmansk Region. It offers a rich tradition of experience in educating future teachers. 
The university’s research program includes a strategic project on innovative pedagogical technologies and the socio-psychological well-being of people. Under this strategic program, the university is now administering approximately ten scientific research and practical projects. 
Russian, UAE specialists examine body of 3,500-year-old bear, found in Siberian permafrost 
Scientists in Yakutia performed an autopsy on the remains of a brown bear with a geological age of 3,460 years. This is the first such examination of a bear’s body with intact soft tissue. 
This is the first fossil bear with residual soft tissue. Earlier, all fossilized bear remains consisted of nothing but skulls and some bones,” said Maksim Cheprasov, the head of the laboratory at the Mammoth Museum of Northeastern Federal University. 
On February 21-22, leading Russian scientists and those from the Biotechnology Research Center in the United Arab Emirates performed the autopsy during an international scientific seminar at the university. 
According to Cheprasov, it was the first time specialists had been able to work with such a find. Today, researchers are collecting samples for subsequent histology, cellular, microbiological and virology research. They will also conduct anatomic and morphological research, and they will extract the bear’s brain and marrow. The autopsy will allow scientists to discover what the animal ate and how it perished. 
The bear’s remains were found by reindeer breeders on Bolshoi Lyakhovsky Island, part of the New Siberian Islands archipelago in the Arctic Ocean, not far from Yakutia, in September 2020. 
Gadzhimagomed Guseinov provides details on Arctic development in 2023 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic will use unified subsidy funds amounting to some 3 billion rubles to build and renovate social facilities at economic growth centers in the Arctic zone. 
Last year, we started financing plans for social development of the economic growth centers in the Arctic zone. ’We began making provisions last year for the single presidential subsidy to be used for urban redevelopment, specifically to develop social facilities, in the same way as it is done in the Russian Far East. Last year, over 3 billion rubles was allocated for these purposes. This year’s budget allocations have been planned at approximately the same or perhaps a slightly lower level,” First Deputy Head of the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Gadzhimagomed Guseinov told the 8th International Conference, The Arctic: Sustainable Development. 
He added that the ministry continued to implement a comprehensive socioeconomic development plan for Norilsk and other Arctic cities. He also reminded his audience that the federal budget had allocated 579 million rubles in 2021 for the priority development of social and utilities infrastructure in populated localities in the Murmansk Region where military units are stationed. 
In 2021, we implemented over 25 projects. In 2023, we have set aside about 300 million [rubles] to improve these military stations,” he specified. 
He also said that in 2022, the ministry launched maritime service from St. Petersburg to the Russian Far East, performing two coastal cruises. According to Guseinov, these cruises confirm their popularity with investors. 
This year, we will certainly continue implementing this project and will even expand it. Last year, we used just one ship – a nuclear-powered lighter carrier. This year, we are planning to use other ships as well so that they can call at smaller and shallower ports to bring supplies to Arctic settlements,” the First Deputy Minister said. 
In July 2022, the Sevmorput nuclear-powered lighter carrier delivered 149 containers and 48 metal structures, sailing along the Northern Sea Route from St. Petersburg to Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. The voyage took 20 days, not counting a call at Murmansk, where additional cargo was taken on board. 
New Ivan Frolov to be built for the Russian Arctic 
The Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Rosgidromet) and the Admiralty Shipyard signed a contract for the new research expedition ship Ivan Frolov. The new ship will serve with the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute fleet, and it will be the new flagship of Russian polar science. 
The new research expedition ship Ivan Frolov will allow for the uninterrupted work of Antarctic expeditions. Russia has five Antarctic stations operating year-round, as well as five seasonal bases. The current ship, that carries polar explorers and freight to Antarctica, is becoming obsolete, but there is some time left before commissioning the new ship. The Ivan Frolov will act as a tanker, an icebreaker, a passenger liner, a freighter and a research vessel. The Admiralty Shipyard was chosen because this St. Petersburg based shipbuilding company has a lot of experience. For example, they built the unique North Pole self-propelled platform, now sailing in the high Arctic latitudes.” said Russian Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov. 
The new ship will primarily be used to support research expeditions in the Arctic and Antarctica. The Ivan Frolov is to replace the Akademik Fyodorov, built by Finland’s Rauma-Repola, now Rauma Marine Constructions, in 1987. 
According to Rosgidromet Head Igor Shumakov, the ship will be designed over the next 12 months. He added that all the projects with Rosgidromet were unique and that no other country exploring Antarctica has any plans for building an Ivan Frolov-class ship. 
Scientists see Antarctica as extremely important, especially now that everyone is talking about climate change, and we need to adapt to these changes. To adapt, we need to understand how the climate might change. Antarctic research projects help us gain insight into previous climate change cycles and to predict future developments,” Shumakov noted. 
Shumakov also added that this will be the best ship in its class. This project will create up to 30,000 jobs, and many Russian-made components will be used in construction. 
The new Russian research flagship has an exciting future. The ship will remain in service for 30 to 40 years, until the 2070s. So, it will be part of great events related to Russian projects and victories in the Arctic. This ship will make it possible to plan research projects for many decades. It will provide new possibilities for young scientists to devote their lives to polar science; they will be able to realize their talent and potential on this ship. The poles are waiting for a new generation of researchers to replace us,” Director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute Alexander Makarov noted. 
The Ivan Frolov will become the fourth ship in the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute’s fleet and will facilitate high-seas research projects. It will also rotate personnel and resupply Arctic and Antarctic stations. 
The Ivan Frolov will conform to the Arc7 class in the Russian Maritime Register of Shipping and will be built to the following specifications: length: almost 165 meters; displacement: about 25,000 metric tons; deadweight: about 9,200 metric tons. 
The research expedition ship will comfortably accommodate 240 people, including 70 crew members and up to 170 scientists and helicopter pilots. The ship will include up to 20 laboratories allowing research in a variety of areas, including the seabed and the stratosphere. It will also carry two helicopters like the Ka-32, Mil Mi-8 or Mi-38 and include a helipad and a hangar to maintain them. The ship is to be completed in 2028 and will have a service life of at least 30 years. 
Cabinet considers law that would give exclusive rights to LNG exports 
Liberalization of exports of liquefied natural gas from Russia's northern regions will boost annual LNG production to 100 million metric tons over the next seven years. 
"On the instructions of the President, the Government is working to increase liquefied natural gas production and exports. A draft law that would help utilize the capacities of Arctic routes for delivering LNG to the Asia-Pacific region has been drawn up. The Government has proposed adding promising deposits located far away from the unified gas supply system to the list of fields from which LNG exports are permitted. These include northern regions of the Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, which contain about 3 trillion cubic meters of natural gas," Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said when opening a Government meeting. 
The Government is now considering a bill to amend Articles 2 and 3 of the Federal Law on Gas Exports. 
"The draft law provides for granting the exclusive right to export LNG to users of onshore subsoil areas, fully or partially located north of the 67th degree of northern latitude, as regards natural gas in a liquefied state, produced from natural gas and (or) petroleum (associated) gas produced in the said subsoil areas, and for using LNG in bunkering sea and river vessels carrying cargo for export," reads the press release for the meeting. 
The draft law developed by the Energy Ministry was submitted back in May of last year. 
"Exempting ship bunkering operations with liquefied natural gas from the gas export law will stimulate the use of LNG as bunker fuel, which is more environmentally friendly and an alternative fuel for maritime and river navigation," the ministry explains. 
Deputy Minister for Far East Development: Law on northern deliveries was developed in regions 
Russia will introduce a unified planning system for northern deliveries of goods to the Arctic to accurately track the needs of locals. In order to do this, the Northern Deliveries (Severny Zavoz) state information system is being created, First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Far East and Arctic Gadzhimagomed Guseinov said at the plenary session of the 8th International Conference, The Arctic: Sustainable Development (Arctic 2023). 
It was not just the government that drafted the law; there was a working and expert group, and it is important that our regions were involved in the process, too. In fact, this law was written in the regions,” Gadzhimagomed Guseinov noted. 
He added that experts traveled to the Arctic regions so that they could understand what was happening there with the deliveries in order to create the document. 
The draft law envisages dividing the goods delivered to the northern deliveries areas into three categories: the first category is essential goods; the second category is cargoes for state and municipal needs; and the third is other goods not included in the first two categories. 
The draft law On the Northern Deliveries, which the Government introduced to the State Duma on February 22, 2023, was submitted to the relevant committee for the development of the Far East and Arctic, according to the lower house of parliament. 
According to the Duma regulations for the passage of bills, at this stage the documents received by the relevant committee are checked for compliance with the established requirements. 
The draft law On the Northern Deliveries envisages a radically new system of delivery management, introduces the concept of northern deliveries, and delegates the responsibilities of different levels of government. According to the document, cargo will be divided into three categories for processing in ports and terminals on a priority basis. There are plans to introduce digital identification and improve the mechanisms for purchasing goods for the northern deliveries. This includes federal support measures. A single maritime operator will deliver high-priority consignments to northern regions by sea at subsidized rates. 
Today, the northern deliveries program includes 25 Russian regions where more than three million people live. More than 87 billion rubles are allocated annually for the purchase and delivery of over 3 million metric tons of cargo. 
White House imposes restrictions on oil drilling in parts of Alaska and in special Arctic Ocean 
The White House announced a ban on oil and gas drilling in the Arctic Ocean and restrictions on land drilling in Alaska. The statement says the ban was introduced to protect whales, seals, polar bears, grizzlies, and caribou. 
Thus, almost 3 million acres of the Beaufort Sea in the Arctic Ocean are now unavailable for oil and gas leases indefinitely.” The ban makes US Arctic waters off limits for oil exploration. 
In addition to the drilling ban, the government will put forward new protection measures for more than 13 million acres of environmentally sensitive special areas within Alaska’s oil reserves. 
The area includes Teshekpuk Lake, Utukok Uplands, Colville River, Kasegaluk Lagoon and Peard Bay Special Areas. 
However, environmental groups complain that the new protection measures are not enough. At the same time, another project, Willow, will be in force in the Alaska National Petroleum Reserve, that covers 23 million acre (93 million ha) on the state’s North Slope. 
It's insulting that Biden thinks this will change our minds about the Willow project,” said Kristen Monsell, a senior attorney at the Center for Biological Diversity. 
Chukotka to host the Polar Bear Universe International Research and Training Conference 
From March 15 to 17, the Chukotka Autonomous Area will host the 6th Polar Bear Universe International Research and Training Conference: 2012–2022 Research Results and Plans for the Future. At the conference, scientists will discuss the results of polar bear research over the past 10 years, as well as share plans for future studies. The event will be held via video conference between Anadyr and Moscow. 
In particular, the conference participants will present the results of recent, unique research that used drones to study the habitats of Chukchi-Alaska polar bears, the world’s largest polar bear population,” the organizers say. 
The conference focuses on the study and protection of the endangered polar bear. It will also cover environmental policy, the socioeconomic development of the Arctic, adaptation to climate change and vital activity safety in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation. 
Additional information and the draft conference program are available on the official website: https://polarbearuniverse.ru/. 
Ka-27 helicopter crew sets a record landing on Yaya Island in Russian Arctic 
In early March 2022, the crew of a Ka-27 helicopter landed on Yaya Island in the Laptev Sea for the first time in history. The helicopter, commanded by Captain Dmitry Nazarov, took off from the anti-submarine warship (ASW) Admiral Levchenko. The helicopter is part of an anti-submarine helicopter regiment in the Northern Fleet’s Air Force and Air Defense Army. 
In 2022, the helicopter took off from the anti-submarine warship Admiral Levchenko during a Northern Fleet mission. After landing on the island, the crew planted the Russian Federation flag,” the fleet’s press service said. 
This achievement of the Russian Armed Forces was listed in the 2022 Guinness World Records, along with 32 other new records. The book now contains 447 records. 
In 2014, researchers debarked from the Russian Navy’s Admiral Vladimirsky landing on the island for the first time. Members of the expedition mapped the vicinity and thus helped expand Russia’s territorial waters by over 450 square miles. 
The crews of Mil-26 helicopters discovered the island in 2013 while flying from Tiksi to Temp Airfield on Kotelny Island, part of the New Siberian Islands Archipelago. 
While discussing the island’s name, both Mi-26 pilots started saying Ya, Ya.” (Ya means I in Russian). So, it was decided to name the island Yaya. 
Permanent Representative of Yakutia to President of Russia: Climate change does not depend on politics 
The main goal of modern climatologists is to create a comfortable and stable life in the Arctic region. Scientists will discuss these issues at a science and practical conference on climate change and permafrost melting, due to take place on March 22-24 in Yakutsk. 
Climate change trends and permafrost melting do not depend on politics, and political speculation by our former partners did not help the climate agenda very much. Today, we need to focus on ways of creating a comfortable and stable life,” Andrei Fedotov, Permanent Representative of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) to the President of Russia, noted at a news conference on the upcoming event. 
About 500 people, including scientists from Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, China, India, Brazil, the United States and Japan, are to attend the conference both online and offline. 
Members of the academic world continue to maintain ties because scientists know that politics are subject to change, and climate is an objective reality,” Fedotov explained. 
Nikolai Korchunov, Chair of the Arctic Council's Senior Arctic Officials and Ambassador at Large at the Russian Foreign Ministry, noted that Arctic climate change was capable of determining all changes on the planet. 
In the 21st century, the Arctic will warm up two or three times faster than the rest of the world. When we talk about a 1.5-degree rise in average global temperatures, this figure is 3-5 degrees for the Arctic. We should also remember that permafrost layers contain substantial amounts of carbon,” Korchunov explained. 
Ministry of Energy working on expanding Arctic energy projects 
Russian Minister of Energy Nikolai Shulginov discussed the implementation of high-priority energy projects in the Arctic. 
According to Shulginov, the Ministry of Energy is evaluating the efficiency of LNG plant construction projects in the Arctic. These projects include modifying the Eastern Gas program to consolidate gas deposits and to expand gas distribution networks. 
The program modifications are designed to supply more gas to the east Siberian and Far Eastern regions, regardless of the foreign economic situation,” Shulginov said. 
The Power of Siberia pipeline has created opportunities for exporting gas to China under specific contracts, as well as gas distribution to the eastern regions in the coming decades. The concerned officials are now discussing the construction of the Power of Siberia 2 gas pipeline with a connector line to the Sakhalin-Khabarovsk-Vladivostok pipeline. 
The Minister of Energy also said Russia would become a leading nation with cutting-edge technology for developing hard-to-extract oilfields. In 2022, the country launched a project to create an innovative thermo-chemical process for developing unconventional oil-bearing seams. 
This unique technology promotes import substitute and will increase exports while developing hard-to-extract deposits,” Nikolai Shulginov noted. 
International Traditional Reindeer Herding Championship kicks off in Yakutia 
Thirteen teams from reindeer-breeding regions in Russia, Mongolia, China, Greenland and Iceland arrived in Yakutia for the 1st International Traditional Reindeer Herding Championship. The championship takes place in the city of Neryungri and the village of Iyengra of the Neryungrinsky District of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). 
We are happy that our republic has become a venue for a gathering of the world’s reindeer breeders and for promoting a dialogue between them. Apart from professional show competitions, this is a venue for exchanging experience between the world’s reindeer breeders. I am confident that the international championship will become an additional incentive for discussing topical issues related to the preservation of the reindeer breeding sector and its development, and that this will lay the foundation for the long-term development of this important sector in Russia,” Head of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev wrote on his Telegram channel. 
Those at the five-day event will compete in sled hurdling, lasso tossing and reindeer sled racing. The jury will also evaluate their Arctic competences, such as lighting campfires in the winter, cooking fish soup on the fire, setting up a reindeer corral, building a skin tent, fashioning reindeer breeder tools and harnesses, catching and harnessing a reindeer, and repairing and riding a snowmobile. 
On the first day of the championship, Neryungri hosted an extraordinary meeting of the Reindeer Owners and Breeders Association Council. The participants decided to establish an eastern branch of the association due to the complicated international situation. The eastern branch will comprise 20 regions in the Russian Federation, as well as China and Mongolia. The remaining nine regions will set up the western branch. Both branches will work under the same charter. 
140 permafrost change observation points to open in Russia 
The Permafrost Monitoring Center has opened in Russia. It was created at the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI). The center will manage the infrastructure of the state permafrost monitoring system, which should begin this year. 
The monitoring system concept provides for the equipment of 140 points to observe changes in the permafrost, which will be located from the Far North to Tyva and the Altai Territory. The points will be located at Roshydromet stations, which will reduce the cost of the project. The new observation system will provide for full-scale monitoring of permafrost, which covers two thirds of Russia’s territory. The first 20 monitoring points are planned to be deployed this year. It is expected to fully establish the observation system by the end of 2025. 
About 6 million square kilometers of Russia are covered with permafrost rocks that have not melted but remained stable for hundreds and thousands of years. But in recent decades, processes have begun that speed up the degradation of such soils, which in turn can result in the destruction of thousands of residential and industrial buildings and structures. 
Constant monitoring of the state of permafrost, such as continuous measurements of soil temperature and other parameters, will make it possible to identify areas of greatest thawing and risk for infrastructure facilities. There is no similar experience in permafrost research on such a vast territory in the world. The concept for the observation system was developed by our institute. The technology for arranging thermometric wells and data transmission has already been tested in the Russian Far North and in the Spitsbergen Archipelago,” Alexander Makarov said. 
Four groups will also be formed: field work and technical support, scientific and methodological, information technology, and a group for organizational support and logistics. 
The new center will also ensure the organization and operation of the observation point network as well as the receipt, analysis and storage of data, the preparation of reference and reporting information, and the transfer of information to the Unified State Fund of Data on the State of the Environment and Environmental Pollution. 
Green Arctic launches recruitment of volunteers for 2023 expeditions 
The application campaign for participation in summer volunteer expeditions in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area has started. Applications are accepted on the official website of the Green Arctic. Men and women aged 20 to 45 and fit and ready for physical labor in difficult climatic conditions, will be able to take part. 
In the 2023 season, three ecological trips are planned to remote corners of Yamal: to the Marresalya polar station on the coast of the Kara Sea, to the Polyarny resettled village in the Polar Urals, and to the Mys Kamenny village located on the banks of the Gulf of Ob. 
It’s already ten years that the Arctic volunteers have been taking part in projects to clean up the ecological damage on Yamal. All applicants on the expedition undergo psychological selection and theoretical training in order to work in the Extreme North. According to the selection results, we form a rating and offer applicants with the highest scores to join our team,” Georgy Andreyev, project manager for the selection and comprehensive training of volunteers of the Green Arctic, says. 
Volunteers will spend about two weeks on each of the trips; The main task is to clear the territories of litter. Green Arctic will cover travel expenses, food, work clothes and insurance for expedition members,” the organizers say. 
Applications to participate in the expeditions are accepted from March 13 to April 3. The organizers will publish the results of the application period at the end of April. 
Putin: Russia and China are ready to create a joint working body to develop the Northern Sea Route 
Russia and China plan to create a joint working body to develop the Northern Sea Route (NSR). 
We believe the cooperation with Chinese partners in developing the transit potential of the Northern Sea Route is promising. We are ready to create a joint working body to develop the Northern Sea Route,” Vladimir Putin said during a meeting with President of China Xi Jinping. 
The volume of cargo transportation along the NSR in 2022 amounted to 34 million tons. Russian companies’ cargo traffic along the NSR increased by 3 percent, to 966,000 tons, compared to 2021. 
Previously, the Russian President set the task of increasing the cargo turnover along the NSR to 80 million tons in 2024. Putin has repeatedly emphasized that the implementation of Arctic projects along the Northern Sea Route will stimulate the development of not only the Russian Arctic, but the entire economy of the country. A number of important government decisions were made to promote hydrocarbon projects along the NSR, as well as the development of infrastructure and fleet along this route. These included a plan for developing the Northern Sea Route until 2035 with a total funding of almost 1.8 trillion rubles. 
The Russian authorities stressed that the Northern Sea Route, which is 30 percent shorter than the route through the Suez Canal, can become a new international transport alternative, and that the Russian Federation is ready for international partnership to develop the Northern Sea Route. 
Russian Foreign Ministry: BRICS and SCO countries interested in cooperation in the Arctic 
Member states of BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) are showing interest in cooperation in the Russian Arctic zone. 
"More and more countries are showing interest in working in the Arctic region. We are seeing interest from Central Asian countries as well as from BRICS, SCO and other associations," said Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large for the Russian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Chairman of the Senior Arctic Officials’ Committee at the plenary session of the scientific and practical conference on climate change and permafrost melt. 
He added that in this regard it would be interesting to launch an initiative involving interaction and cooperation along the existing poles: the Arctic, the Antarctic and high altitude Asia, where large areas of permafrost are concentrated. 
"We hope that this initiative will contribute to the understanding of the processes facing our planet's climate system," Korchunov said. 
The speaker added that the Arctic agenda is now globalizing: "The Arctic is opening up, but we would like this opening-up to be based on the principles of respecting and preserving the vulnerable Arctic environment, and respecting the peoples who live there, and we would like it to give a boost to sustainable development, built on a concept that would prevent the accumulation of environmental damage." 
Russia in talks with Norway to transfer Arctic Council presidency 
In May 2023, Russia will hand over the presidency of the Arctic Council to Norway in an online meeting. 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov invited official representatives of the Arctic Council to participate in a transition ceremony in Salekhard. However, Norway said the event would take place online and would be limited to civil officials rather than political leaders. 
Morten Høglund, the Senior Arctic Official (SAO) for Norway, noted that, to the best of his knowledge, there would be no ministers at the meeting. 
He also added that the eight Arctic countries, Russia, Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland, the United States and Canada, would have to coordinate the transition. 
Norway also said the main task of its two-year presidency was to see that the Arctic Council would survive. During this period, Norway will prioritize climate issues, sustainable economic development and care for Arctic residents, including efforts to attract young people and to increase the role and influence of indigenous Arctic nations. 
Mobile medical teams start treating patients in Arctic Yakutia 
Mobile medical teams have started visiting polar districts in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). Their members will examine patients and provide benefit recipients with medications. The region launched a medical treatment pilot project in February 2023. Since its inception, 230 kilograms of medications have been delivered to the main district hospitals of Arctic territories. 
Under the project, doctors visit even the remotest and sparsely populated villages. After the checkups and consultations, doctors recommend certain patients receive follow-up care if necessary. Doctors in Yakutsk keep an eye on such patients using telemedicine technologies, and evaluate their condition and treatment outcomes. Mobile medical teams will subsequently revisit these districts to assess the condition of local patients, and they will also provide preventive treatment. The project aims to screen patients, diagnose their health disorders at an early stage, prevent complications, and improve the quality of life of northern residents. 
These teams have already been to communities in the Abiysky, Momsky, Verkhoyansky, Allaikhovsky and Even-Bytantaisky districts, including those that can only be reached by air. By late April, medical personnel will visit all 13 Arctic districts of Yakutia. This month, there are plans to visit four districts, with mobile medical teams providing primary care in the Anabarsky, Verkhnekolymsky, Olenyoksky and Bulunsky districts. 
Plans for the Syradasai skydeposit coal terminal on Taimyr Peninsula 
The Government of the Russian Federation has supported a number of high-priority investment projects, including the planned construction of a bulk transshipment facility at the Syradasaisky coal deposit, one of the largest in the world. 
Glavgosexpertiza, the federal agency for state evaluation, has approved the creation of a port for receiving and handling freighters and icebreakers near the coal terminal on the Taimyr Peninsula. 
The proposed coal transshipment facility is located near the town of Dikson in the Taimyr Dolgano-Nenets Autonomous Area in the Krasnoyarsk Territory. Specifically, it is sited in Yenisei Bay Estuary on the Kara Sea and is the northernmost seaport in Russia. 
It is possible to deliver coal from the Syradasaisky deposit year-round, provided that icebreakers will escort the freighters. The port channel will be 16.2 meters deep to accept fully loaded ships with a maximum draft of 13.4 meters. The surrounding water area near the pier will be 16 meters deep, allowing ships to maneuver and operate freely,” Alexander Rudakovsky, the chief project manager, noted. 
The specifications of a bulk carrier of the Admiral Schmidt class with a deadweight of 104,500 metric tons were used to determine the specific parameters of the coal terminal’s freight pier and channel. The Project 22220 nuclear-powered icebreaker Arktika with a rated power capacity of 60 megawatts will be the main line icebreaker for escorting bulkers. 
The project also includes solutions to facilitate safe navigation near the freight port facility. For example, there are plans to install a high-precision sector beacon marker at the Yuzhny freight terminal. This will mark the exit channel and the passable width. 
Arctic Research Center to send glaciological expedition to IGAN glacier 
Scientists from the Arctic Research Center and the Institute of Geography at the Russian Academy of Sciences will conduct comprehensive research on the IGAN glacier, which will provide data on ongoing climate changes and the chemical composition of the atmosphere. 
For 10 days, the specialists will conduct geophysical and glaciological studies, including radar measurements of the thickness of ice and snow cover, balance observations on the glacier and drilling operations with ice core sampling. 
For the first time this year, the glacier drilling will involve full core sampling. An analysis of the obtained ice samples will make it possible to identify long-term trends in climate change in this region. The samples will also be used to study changes in the chemical composition of the atmosphere and to determine the degree and possible sources of its pollution. 
In today’s climatic conditions, the number of places suitable for obtaining paleoclimatic information in the Russian Arctic is decreasing. But there is still a potential drilling point – the IGAN glacier in the Polar Urals. Despite the reduction in the glacier size, recent studies have shown that a significant thickness of ice remains in the accumulation zone. 
The IGAN glacier is the largest glacier in the Polar Urals. It was discovered by Soviet glaciologist Leonid Dolgushin 70 years ago. Scientists carried out year-round research on the glacier until 1981. The resumption of regular monitoring in the Polar Urals will allow scientists to track glacier melting under the influence of a changing climate, and to predict possible natural hazards. 
The samples taken will allow us to determine the ice age and answer the question about the conditions of the existence of Polar Urals glaciers in the interglacial period,” said Alexander Shein, leading researcher of the Cryosphere Sector of the Arctic Research Center. 
Such scientific monitoring is necessary amid the changing climate and the degradation of glaciers, as well as due to the active development of mountain tourism and the economic activities of the small-numbered indigenous peoples of the North. 
Based on the results of field and laboratory studies, data will be obtained on climate change, the level of atmospheric pollution, the accumulation of solid particles in the region, as well as on the IGAN glacier’s regime, dynamics and mass balance. 
An Arctic expedition under the Russian Ministry for Civil Defense, Emergencies and Disaster Relief departed Naryan-Mar and will travel over 1,600 kilometers. 
We are launching a large-scale expedition to test new rescue methods and alternatives in adverse climatic conditions,” Emergencies Minister Alexander Kurenkov said at the launch ceremony. 
He added that social projects were an important aspect of the expedition. They plan to meet with the local people, representatives of indigenous Arctic ethnic groups, and oil and gas workers and residents of field camps. 
Of course, we will pay special attention to children. Our rescue workers will conduct safety lessons, and they will offer first aid tips,” the minister said. 
Expedition members will try out nearly 20 models of new and prototype technology, equipment and gear. In addition to Naryan-Mar, they will visit the Varandei field camp, townships of Karataika, Amderma and Ust-Kara, the Yarynskaya compressor station on the Badaratskaya Estuary coast, and the city of Labytnangi. 
The expedition is taking place ahead of the Emergencies Ministry’s Arctic exercise, scheduled for April 6-7 in nine Russian regions. 
The Arctic’s place in the new Foreign Policy Concept of the Russian Federation 
The new Foreign Policy Concept of the Russian Federation defines the Arctic as one of Russia’s regional foreign policy directions. The new document that replaced the previous 2016 concept notes: Russia is seeking to preserve peace and stability, enhance environmental sustainability, reduce threats to national security in the Arctic, create favourable international conditions for the social and economic development of the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation (including to protect the original habitat and traditional livelihood of the indigenous people living there), as well as to advance the Northern Sea Route as a competitive national transport corridor making international transportation between Europe and Asia possible.” 
The President of Russia endorsed the convention of the concept on March 31, 2023. 
The document also notes that Russia will focus on peacefully resolving international issues, related to the Arctic; counteracting unfriendly states' policies aimed at militarization of the region and limiting Russia's ability to exercise its sovereign rights in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation; ensuring the unalterability of the historically established international legal regime of the inland maritime waters of the Russian Federation; and establishing mutually beneficial cooperation with non-Arctic states who pursue a constructive policy toward Russia and are interested in international activities in the Arctic, including developing the infrastructure of the Northern Sea Route.” 
Ancient ground squirrel mummy found in Canadian Arctic 
Canada’s Yukon paleontologists have unveiled an unusual find from the goldfields: a mummified Arctic ground squirrel from the Ice Age. 
In 2018, the remains of an Arctic squirrel, or, as it is also called, a Beringian ground squirrel, were found in goldfields near the Klondike River, in the territory of the Tshondaek-Khvachin Indians (northwest Canada). After the discovery, experts took an X-ray, which showed the skeleton of an Arctic squirrel perfectly preserved under its fur and tissues, and curled up into a ball. Apparently, the rodent died while hibernating. It happened about 30,000 years ago during the Ice Age. 
X-ray of a squirrel mummy. 
"It's not quite recognizable until you see these little hands and these claws, and you see a little tail, and then you see ears," said Grant Zazula, a regular Yukon government paleontologist. "I study bones all the time and they're exciting, they're really neat. But when you see an animal that's perfectly preserved, that's 30,000 years old, and you can see its face and its skin and its hair and all that, it's just so visceral. It brings it so to life." 
The permafrost mummified the squirrel and preserved it for tens of thousands of years, as if it had been transported in time machine in complete safety. 
Zazula thinks squirrels are an especially interesting species to study because unlike mammoths or Scimitar cats, they survived after the Ice Age. 
Scientists finish stage two of walrus rookery research at Cape Kharasavey in the Kara Sea 
Field studies last October showed that most walruses do not leave Baydaratskaya Bay, meaning that they reside in the Kara Sea. This data was obtained by a group of scientists from installed sensors. 
The research is carried out by a team of scientists: Alexander Sokolov, senior researcher at the Arctic Research Station of the Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology at the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences; Andrei Boltunov, General Director of the Marine Mammals Research and Expeditionary Center; and Maksim Tolstoy, engineer of the RAS Shirshov Institute of Oceanology. 
Detailed calculations based on drone images in October 2022 showed that a maximum of 4,133 walruses came ashore at a time. This is one and a half times higher than in the previous year when more than 2,000 heads were counted. 
Despite the fact that walruses separate – males settle separately from females with cubs – Yamal walruses continue to come to Baydaratskaya Bay of the Kara Sea together: males, females and cubs. This is a unique phenomenon,” the statement on the Yamal Government website reads. 
This year, specialists counted the number of the largest, mature males and calves that are still feeding on their mother’s milk for the first time: each category makes up about six percent of the total number of walruses. The rest are young animals, including females. 
The herd of walruses occupies a limited area of the water: about 50,000 sq km. The core of the most popular water area is about 6,000 sq km off the western coast of the Yamal Peninsula. 
The results of genetic analysis confirm that Yamal walruses have a relatively independent history. Toxicological analysis suggests that the nature and composition of the accumulated persistent organic pollutants differ from the composition of the accumulated pollutants of their Pechora relatives. 
Experts studied the historical data about the presence of walruses on the peninsula. The Yamal walruses have survived several ice ages and a period of intensive fishing in the Barents Sea. 
Work is underway to create a specially protected territory at the mouth of the Tiutei-Yakha River. This will ensure the safety of the endangered population. 
Participants in Safe Arctic 2023 exercises perform over 100 drills 
The Safe Arctic 2023 experimental research exercises took place across nine regions in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation on April 6 and 7, with 3,500 specialists and 650 units of equipment and machinery involved. Rescue workers carried out 110 drills during these two days, and also practiced air, water, underground and surface rescue operations. 
We must be ready to promptly respond to any threats and challenges which may arise in the region. Held across nine regions, the exercise brought together units from various ministries, agencies, state corporations and entities included in the Russian System of Prevention and Response to Emergencies, who were tasked with 16 missions reflecting the most common risks the Russian Arctic poses,” Minister for Civil Defense, Emergencies and Disaster Relief Alexander Kurenkov said. He personally oversaw the exercises. 
The official said that these drills are expected to enable the Emergencies Ministry to obtain objective information on whether the available forces and assets are prepared to operate in an extreme climate and in hard-to-reach areas, as well as to effectively plan future efforts to promote safety in the Arctic. 
I would like to stress the professionalism, skills and effective coordination by Russian rescue workers. They demonstrated in all clarity that the Russian Federation is ready to fulfill its international obligations with a sense of serious responsibility. 
This and future exercises are designed to prevent emergencies and deal with relief efforts with the Emergencies Ministry directly involved as the focal point, and for further reinforcing our prevention and response capabilities in the Russian Arctic, as well as across the Arctic region as a whole,” Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large with the Russian Foreign Ministry, who chairs the Arctic Council’s Senior Officials’ Committee, said. 
The previous Safe Arctic exercises took place in seven regions of the Russian Arctic in September 2021, when specialists practiced emergency relief efforts and tested 47 new pieces of equipment, gear and methods. Some 6,000 specialists took part in the drills, held as part of Russia’s 2021-2023 chairmanship in the Arctic Council. 
Russia and Vietnam plan joint research at Arctic stations 
Russia is ready to cooperate in research with Vietnam at its scientific Arctic stations. 
We not only intend to continue research in Vietnam, in climatic conditions that are not available in Russia, but we are also interested in receiving our Vietnamese colleagues at our scientific Arctic stations,” said Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko at the Friday meeting with the staff of the Russian-Vietnamese Tropical Research and Technology Center in Hanoi. 
He praised the work of the Tropical Center, which has been ongoing for three and a half decades. 
Today the Tropical Center is an actively developing multidisciplinary and interdisciplinary scientific institution; it is building new facilities and purchases modern equipment,” the Deputy Prime Minister noted. 
According to Chernyshenko, in 2021 over 150 Russian scientists working at the center took part in 45 expeditions and participated in the publication of 173 articles. In 2022 the number of scientists from the Russian Federation almost doubled to 266 people. 
Chernyshenko pointed out that Russia’s Vietnamese partners want to further strengthen the Russian presence at the center. 
We will definitely work on increasing the number of permanent staff from the Russian side,” the Deputy Prime Minister promised. 
He also said Russia is ready to invest in equipping the Tropical Center with modern instruments and equipment, creating new joint laboratories in current areas of research like biological and chemical safety, as well as in resolving the problems of dioxins, climate change and environmental protection, including in marine waters. 
Russian specialists open airfield at Cape Baranov Ice Base on Severnaya Zemlya 
The Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) has opened an airfield for heavy wheeled transport aircraft at the Cape Baranov Ice Base on Severnaya Zemlya, Russia’s largest hydrometeorology observatory. Notably, the new runway will support the operation of North Pole drifting Arctic expeditions. 
An-72 and An-74 aircraft operating from Khatanga have already flown in polar explorers, food and expedition equipment to Cape Baranov. The snow-covered airfield can receive transport aircraft of any class. 
According to AARI Director Alexander Makarov, the Cape Baranov Ice Base will resupply Arctic expeditions, including drifting North Pole stations. In 2022, these stations resumed operations after Russia deployed an ice-resistant platform. 
The new runway will be a key element in the system of resupplying high-latitude Arctic expeditions and rotating the personnel. Transport aircraft will deliver crews and freight to the Cape Baranov Ice Base. Other aircraft or helicopters will then deliver them to drifting stations or expeditionary ships. We are currently preparing to rotate some of the North Pole-41 expedition members. It is not possible to land an aircraft near the drifting station because there is no appropriate ice floe. Two Mi-8 helicopters will fly polar explorers in. We are planning to rotate six of the ship’s sailors and four expedition members. This operation is quite difficult because helicopters can barely reach the expedition area,” Alexander Makarov said. 
Workers started preparing the new runway at the Cape Baranov Ice Base ahead of the North Pole-41 drifting expedition. Unlike many other Arctic and Antarctic airfields, this runway has a permafrost layer, rather than a glacier, under the snow. The runway had to be compacted layer by layer, for greater durability, following the first snowfalls last autumn. 
Chukotka hunters receive tax incentives 
The Government of the Russian Federation has amended its program to provide state support for the traditional economic activities of indigenous Arctic ethnic groups. The amendments expand the application of the 6 percent flat agriculture tax for sea-hunting industry organizations that harvest marine mammals and turn out the related products. This will reduce the financial burden on producers. 
Today, nine indigenous Arctic ethnic groups with over 200 employees hunt marine mammals in Chukotka. The hunting of marine mammals is an important aspect of life in the region’s coastal villages. This is the main element of their diet and of preserving their traditional culture and values,” Yelena Yevtyukhova, a State Duma Deputy from the Chukotka Autonomous Area, noted. 
This state program was designed to subsidize hunters and fishermen, to provide them with equipment and technology, to reimburse them for part of their heat and electricity expenses, to subsidize working conditions’ assessment expenses, to finance technical teaching aids, research projects and the epizootic monitoring of marine mammal diseases. One of the program’s goals was to expand production capacity in communities that hunt marine mammals. 
The amendments also deal with deadlines for listing the products of sea-hunting industry among other agricultural products and primary products obtained from the communities’ own agricultural feedstock. These deadlines have been postponed from 2022 to 2023. 
Kurchatov Institute develops nuclear power plant for remote Arctic areas 
The Kurchatov Institute National Research Center has developed the Yelena-M low-capacity nuclear thermal electric power plant to provide power to remote Russian regions, including Arctic areas. 
The small plant generates up to one megawatt of electricity and 10 Mw of heat. This ‘battery’ will make it possible to power Northern Sea Route infrastructure and all of our regions. It is very easy to provide remote areas with electricity,” the Center’s President Mikhail Kovalchuk noted, while speaking at the Federation Council on Wednesday, at the opening ceremony of an exhibition on the 80th anniversary of the Kurchatov Institute. 
The Yelena-M power plant will provide consumers in remote areas with heat, electricity and fresh water. It utilizes the direct, non-machine, principle of converting thermal energy into electricity. The self-adjusting Yelena-M operates in the full range of electrical loads and does not require any maintenance. Workers only assemble, launch and dismantle the power plant that requires just one nuclear fuel load throughout its 25-30-year service life. A prototype is operating at the Kurchatov Institute. 
Chukotka expands Port of Pevek 
The Government of the Chukotka Autonomous Area has expanded the area of the Port of Pevek. The port now includes expanded area and water sections near Cape Naglyoinyn. A port, planned to be built there, will be designed to ship the Baimsky ore mining and processing plant’s production and other commodities. Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin signed the relevant resolution. 
The Baimskaya gold and copper zone is among the world’s largest undeveloped copper deposits. A new large-scale, low-cost mining facility will be built to extract the minerals there. The development of this area includes an ore mining and processing plant (GOK) and the related infrastructure. 
The boundaries of the sea port in the Chukotka Autonomous Area will include additional territory and water sections near Cape Naglyoinyn. A sea terminal is planned to be built there to ship the Baimsky GOK’s production. 
The terminal will have a capacity of about 2 million tons of cargo annually, with copper concentrate from the Peschanka deposit accounting for 75 percent of this volume. Ore mining and processing companies are currently developing this deposit. The port terminal is scheduled to open in 2026. 
The new terminal at the Port of Pevek will help implement the national socio-economic development initiative that stipulates year-round navigation through the Northern Sea Route and aiming to expand freight volumes to 150 million metric tons by 2030,” the government’s sources noted. 
In early March 2023, the government approved a document stipulating investment funding to build a sea terminal near Cape Naglyoinyn. This investment will exceed 27.6 billion rubles in 2023-2026. 
Meeting of the Presidium of the State Commission for Development of the Arctic held in Arkhangelsk 
Deputy Prime Minister, Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev took part in a meeting of the Presidium of the State Commission for the Development of the Arctic in Arkhangelsk. The agenda included the development of the Northern Sea Route, creation of an advanced special economic zone (ASEZ) in the Arkhangelsk Region, and distribution of funds from the Presidential Arctic Single Subsidy. 
First of all, we will discuss the implementation of the presidential instructions on the development of the Northern Sea Route. We will also talk about the development of the Arkhangelsk transportation hub and achieving the targeted indicators for cargo traffic. Arkhangelsk has always had an important place in the Arctic transport system because the port is close to centers of extracting and processing. In 2022, cargo shipping volumes at the Port of Arkhangelsk totaled 6.6 million tons, exceeding the volume in 2021 by 24 percent. Measures for the development of the Arkhangelsk transport hub are included in the plan for the development of the Northern Sea Route until 2035. They include the creation of a new deep-water port with a capacity of about 40 million tons of cargo per year, including dredging, plus the development of railway and road infrastructure,” Yury Trutnev said in his opening remarks. 
According to Arkhangelsk Region Governor Alexander Tsybulsky, the Arkhangelsk transportation hub is a key cargo transshipment center for current and prospective Arctic projects. This is being significantly strengthened in the transport system of the Northern Sea Route, also due to the new geopolitical and economic conditions that have changed logistics chains in shipping. 
Key shipping operators in the Arkhangelsk Region continue to develop their port infrastructure and their berths. At the same time, the port and the promising deep-water area of the port are not the only structural elements of the Arkhangelsk transport hub, which includes railway and bridge infrastructure, road and access roads, which also require development, renovation and updates. The bulk of the cargo shipped through the port arrives by road and rail. Loading and unloading at the Port of Arkhangelsk is currently difficult due to long lines of vehicles at the entrances to the cargo areas and congestion during certain periods at key railway junctions, in particular the Solombalka station. To further increase cargo shipping, the approaches to the main cargo areas need to be expanded and upgraded. 
A comprehensive plan for the development of the Arkhangelsk transport hub is being developed. The main proposals were submitted by the leadership of the Arkhangelsk Region to the Ministry of Transport. The draft plan includes the development of the port, adjacent transport and engineering infrastructure at the existing port, human resource development in the transport sector, the digitalization of port activities, and the creation of conditions for the development of ship repair services in the immediate vicinity of the Northern Sea Route. 
Yury Trutnev instructed the Ministry of Transport and the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic to submit a report to the Russian government within two weeks with details on the development of the Arkhangelsk transport hub. 
Additional measures to achieve the targeted indicators for cargo traffic along the Northern Sea Route in 2023 were also discussed. The President of Russia set a goal to increase cargo traffic along the Northern Sea Route to 80 million tons by 2024. The target for 2023 is 36 million tons. According to the Deputy Prime Minister, the companies that have assumed the obligations to increase traffic on the Northern Sea Route are ready to fulfill them. 
Summing up the discussion, Yury Trutnev noted that the development of the Northern Sea Route is strategic for the Russian economy. 
Such development requires both additional costs and efforts. But as a result, we will have our own shipping route, only one of two in the world: reliable, safe and controlled by the Russian Federation,” he said. 
The creation of an ASEZ in the Arkhangelsk Region was approved. The region and the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic and the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and Arctic, proposes developing two areas in the planned zone: the implementation of the Arctic Neighborhood project and the creation of an industrial park to accommodate small and medium-sized industrial enterprises. 
The Arctic Neighborhood project includes state support for housing construction. The project assumes that an ASEZ area with all of the preferences and benefits for the developers will be created for residential development. At the same time, the utility infrastructure will be built at federal expense. This mechanism will make it possible to build housing, including for categories of citizens in need. 
Four undeveloped land plots for housing construction have been chosen for the Arctic Neighborhood project in Mayskaya Gorka, the most dynamically developing district in Arkhangelsk. The estimated area of the total urban development project at the selected sites is about 200,000 square meters of living space. In the first stage, a tender will be created for the construction of a neighborhood with a volume of at least 70,000-80,000 square meters. 
The creation of an industrial park is aimed at solving the problem of an acute shortage of investment sites ready to accommodate production. Today there are requests from 20 potential investors with a total planned investment of about 5 billion rubles, who need land with the necessary utility infrastructure. 
According to the Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, Alexei Chekunkov, the Arctic Neighborhood mechanism and the arrangement of industrial parks in the ASEZ will diversify the economic sectors of the Arkhangelsk Region, encourage import substitution and create new high-paying jobs. 
In terms of social development, of course, we will continue to improve the quality of people’s lives, focusing this tool on the most urgent measures to improve the quality of life, education and healthcare,” he said. 
Amendments to the plans for the social development of these economic growth centers in the Arkhangelsk and Murmansk regions and in the Republic of Karelia were considered. In particular, an additional 300 million rubles have been allocated from the budget of the Murmansk Region for the development of housing and social infrastructure in settlements where military units are deployed. 
Lavna coal terminal at the Port of Murmansk receives VEB funding 
The VEB.RF State Development Corporation set aside about 550 million rubles to build the Lavna coal transshipment facility at the Port of Murmansk. This funding will finance construction, equipment installation and startup operations. The project is to receive 4 billion rubles under a subsidized funding mechanism. 
The facility is scheduled to open in December this year. VEB.RF financing will provide uninterrupted construction operations. 
When it opens, the Lavna facility will help open up new markets in the Asia Pacific countries for Russian exporters. Lavna will help accomplish a strategic objective to reorient cargo traffic through Russian seaports. The coal terminal project will provide the regional budget with additional tax revenue and will create over 500 jobs, primarily for residents in the Murmansk Region,” VEB.RF Chairman Igor Shuvalov said. 
They are building this facility on instruction from the President of Russia under a project to ensure the comprehensive development of the Murmansk transit hub. This project will increase thermal coal exports allowing Russia to enter new markets. 
The facility is 61 percent complete. The access dam’s slope has been reinforced, and 82 percent of the piers’ piles have been installed. Workers have started assembling ship-loading machinery. Work is underway to complete the main infrastructure of the coal transshipment facility, and specialists have started assembling the large technical equipment. In all, the project involves 1,434 workers and 183 pieces of construction equipment. 
Government approves a bill on gold mining by individuals 
The Russian Government has approved a bill on gold mining ("free delivery"), which will allow individuals to mine gold, and it will soon be submitted to the State Duma. Thus, gold mining by individuals will be allowed in the first three years after the law is passed in the Far East and the Arctic, and later in other regions of the country. 
The bill also includes amendments to the Russian Tax Code relating to VAT payments, not by miners but by gold purchasers, and a personal income tax exemption for individuals who mine less than one kilogram of gold within the income tax reporting period. 
Now in Russia, only legal entities, which have received a permit to use mineral resources under an auction or tender are allowed to mine gold. The bill on free gold delivery was prepared by the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic on presidential instructions. The new program will be launched on a three-year pilot basis in the Far Eastern and Arctic regions, and then throughout Russia. 
Thanks to the initiative, residents in the Far East and the Arctic will be able to register as individual entrepreneurs through a specially created online system, and receive a prospecting area for free use based on an application submitted to the local authorized body. The land, not to exceed ten hectares, will be issued for three years with the possibility of extending it for another three years by agreement of the parties. 
The bill also stipulates a number of restrictions for individual miners: 
· A gold miner can work only one plot, remove a layer of soil up to five metres and may not employ more than 10 hired workers; 
· The maximum amount of gold mined during the whole period of entrepreneurial activity on the plot cannot exceed 30 kg; 
· Blasting operations, the use of polluting or environmentally hazardous substances, the use of chemical methods of gold mining or equipment with power exceeding 5 kW (with the exception of vehicles weighing up to 3,500 kg) are not allowed on the plot; 
· The site cannot be located in territories with deposits of precious stones; 
· Miners will be required to keep accounts of their activities "with site photography and video recording," to submit declarations on this activity and on restoration of a site. 
According to the explanatory note in the bill, the positive effect for the regional budgets is estimated at 15.1 billion to 29.99 billion rubles cumulatively over three years. Legalization of prospecting activity could help create over 10,000 new jobs, says the note. According to the Union of Miners, there are 247 placer gold mining enterprises in Russia, each producing less than 30 kilograms a year. Their cumulative production is two tons per year, and the total placer deposits in Russia have been producing about 82 tons of gold per year over the past three years. 
Chukotka will introduce quotas on locals' employment in major investment projects 
Extended quotas for employing local people at large enterprises in Chukotka are expected to be introduced. Currently, no more than 2 percent of employees at large companies are local people. 
"Agreements with major investors in Chukotka will include extended quotas for the employment of a district's local residents. At this point, when implementing major investment projects, very few local people are involved, less than 2 percent," Acting Governor Vladislav Kuznetsov said, via the region’s press service. 
The Acting Governor also said that negotiations had already been conducted with the major investors. In the near future, agreements will be supplemented with a new section: expansion of quotas to attract Chukotka residents to investment projects starting from the construction phase through operations. Local institutions as well as specialized universities in other regions will be involved in educating specialists. 
The Acting Governor noted that the trained specialists will have the opportunity to undertake an internship at the enterprises where they are going plan to work. The agreements with investors will also reflect the goals of joint infrastructure construction projects. 
"This is needed for both residents in villages that live near these projects, and for the investors themselves. Because the load on the infrastructure, healthcare and schools, transport and many other things increases," said Kuznetsov. 
Yamal-Nenets deputy speaks about northern indigenous peoples at UN session 
Eduard Yaungad, a deputy of the Legislative Assembly of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, gave a presentation at the 22nd session of the UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues. He spoke about the development of industry on Yamal, technological progress and traditions of indigenous peoples. 
The theme of this year’s meeting is Indigenous Peoples, human health, planetary and territorial health and climate change: a rights-based approach.” With regard to the agenda, the Yamal deputy suggested reviewing practices and explaining effective approaches to mapping, registration and other aspects of economic organization of traditional lands using state and indigenous peoples’ own mechanisms. 
He added that the region had the largest number of reindeer, or 620,000 animals. While indigenous peoples in the rest of the world tend to urbanize and move to big cities, the number of nomads on Yamal is increasing, which makes it necessary to preserve the quality of pastures. 
This requires effective nature conservation activities, as well as additional measures for land management, land registration and the science-based planning of reindeer-grazing routes in order to preserve their food supply,” Yaungad said at the session. 
The deputy also noted that forest reindeer breeding had great potential. It was not popular before, but right now forests can provide many reindeer with a new pasture and relieve the existing ones. 
First North Pole platform crew rotated in the Arctic 
The first crew of the North Pole-41 drifting station, operated by the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI), was rotated in the Arctic Ocean at 89°24’ north latitude and 110°32’ east longitude, 60 kilometers from the North Pole. 
The logistics involved 10 flights over a distance of 16,000-plus kilometers. Airplanes flew polar explorers from St. Petersburg to Krasnoyarsk and then to Khatanga. The flight from Khatanga to Cape Baranov Ice Base (where the North Pole self-propelled drifting platform is located) had to be delayed for 24 hours due to bad weather. It took all-in-all 24 hours to fly explorers from Khatanga to Cape Baranov, Barneo Ice Base and the North Pole self-propelled drifting platform. On April 20, 2023, an An-72 with the replacement crew flew from Krasnoyarsk and landed safely on a runway at Barneo Ice Base. 
Two Mi-8T helicopters covered the final 200-km leg and brought the replacement crew to the drifting station. Seven people are already working aboard the ice-resistant North Pole platform (ship). Nine specialists who have completed their Arctic tour of duty are now back in St. Petersburg. A dog named Buran (Blizzard) also completed his stint at Cape Baranov Ice Base and was returned home. 
The North Pole-41 crew was rotated on an ice floe over 200 km from the drifting station and 60 km from the geographical North Pole. This complicated operation was successful. We have streamlined a system to rotate personnel in and out quickly and efficiently. We restored an airstrip at Cape Baranov Ice Base almost from scratch that stopped receiving aircraft almost 35 years ago. This airstrip played a key role in this move. The airstrip will support polar expeditions and, if necessary, emergency rescue operations on the Northern Sea Route,” AARI Director Alexander Makarov noted. 
This logistics operation involved skilled polar explorers, ice specialists and pilots from several aviation units. 
Helicopters are unable to reach the drifting station, and the establishment of fuel depots on ice is expensive and dangerous. So, we decided to use runways at the Cape Baranov and Barneo ice bases. The preparations and rotation procedure took place in adverse weather conditions, with temperatures fluctuating sharply. However, the incoming crewmembers and those leaving the station, were delighted to see each other; they smiled and joked. Despite the difficulties, we were able to complete the change on schedule. Polar explorers and over one metric ton of cargo, including scientific equipment and parcels from home, reached the ice-resistant platform safely,” Head of the AARI High-Latitude Arctic Expedition Vladimir Sokolov noted. 
After successfully rotating the crew, AARI experts started preparing for a high-seas expedition to rotate other polar explorers and to deliver large freight consignments to the drifting station. In August, the scientific expedition ship Akademik Tryoshnikov will sail for the North Pole drifting ice-resistant platform. 
Tested in the Arctic: Yakutia rolls out new product certification system 
Manufacturers will be able to use a new voluntary certification system, Tested in the Arctic,” and apply this label to products and designs tested in Yakutia’s harsh climate. The Federal Agency for Technical Regulation and Metrology (Rosstandart) and the Federal Service for Intellectual Property (Rospatent) have already registered this system. 
The project was conceived to test designs and products in the Arctic: if they work in these harsh conditions, they will be good anywhere in the world. Of course, we must use the advantages created by our climate and smart economy mechanisms for developing the Arctic territories,” Tested in the Arctic project leader, Deputy Head of the Bulunsky District Vladimir Miloslavsky said. 
He went on to say that Russian tech solutions tested in low-temperature environments could use the Tested in the Arctic voluntary certification system to set themselves apart from the competition. 
This testing could include clothing, mechanical rubber goods and car parts, as well as communication systems, buildings and other structures, and paint and coatings. These tests will also provide producers insight into how to improve the quality of their products and make them more competitive,” he pointed out. 
Mr. Miloslavsky expects this certification program to contribute to the development of the Arctic territories and help attract investment. 
We could set up an ecosystem that includes testing and production sites, research centers and multi-purpose testing labs with dedicated marketplaces,” he said. 
Russian researchers develop fertilizer for growing plants in the Arctic 
A team from the Mendeleyev Russian University of Chemical Technology has developed a nutrient composition that will allow crops to be harvested in the Arctic using soilless cultivation. 
Ecologists at the Mendeleyev University have created a special nutrient composition for growing crops in hydroponic systems. According to the researchers, in the near future, their project will become an important element of national security and will provide the population with food in extreme climates, including in Russia’s Arctic zone,” the press service of the university said in a statement. 
High yields cannot be achieved in agriculture in areas with a harsh climate, such as the Far North, without balanced fertilizing with macro- and micronutrients. Plants can be grown using a water-based nutrient solution instead of soil, in a hydroponic system. 
According to Ksenia Pishchayeva, an environment and nature management specialist, and assistant at the Green Chemistry for Sustainable Development Department in partnership with UNESCO at Mendeleyev University, the current solutions for hydroponic farming have their limitations. Some of them are not effective enough because they contain trace elements in the form of mineral salts with low bioavailability, while others, like the widely used GHE (General Hydroponics Europe nutrient formulation), are unstable at pH levels above 7, and contain too little nitrogen. 
The Russian scientists have created a local analogue to GHE, but with a higher nitrogen content and a wider range of trace elements, as well as improved stability in the finished product. They applied an unusual method adding chelates (organometallic compounds) to the solution. Such compounds are normally used for the processing of Class I and II hazardous waste and the reclamation of polluted lands. These additives, originally used to increase the ability of plants to extract heavy metals from contaminated soils, promote the absorption of more trace elements by plants. 
We have developed a nutrient solution containing chelated microelements, as well as a method for making a nutrient solution for hydroponics. Our research findings showed a faster biomass increase in agricultural products (daikon) in comparison with the international analogue of this nutrient solution. Biomass growth was 30 percent faster, root mass growth, 65 percent faster, and the increase in the leaf plate area, 16 percent faster,” the press service quoted Pishchayeva as saying. 
The development of a stable nutrient solution took the team about two months. After that, they began experimenting with various plants and comparing their new method with those available on the market for another six months. Their study was supported by the Priority-2030 program under the Ministry of Education and Science. Now the team plans to work on tailoring their nutrient solution for various crops, and adjust the formulations for plants at different stages of growth. 
Russia to open another Arctic port with rail access 
Dmitry Artyukhov, Governor of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, announced plans to open the Arctic Port of Sabetta with railway access at a meeting with President Vladimir Putin. 
The head of the region reported to the President on the progress of building the port, which will become the entry point for major projects in the shelf zone. 
There are 170 kilometers more to go, and Russia will have another Arctic port with rail access. In fact, it will be the easternmost port in the Arctic. We are also working on this project so we can implement it once all the necessary conditions are in place,” Dmitry Artyukhov explained. 
He also spoke to the President about the progress of the Northern Latitudinal Railway project. 
The main elements of the project have been developed. The 2.5-kilometer bridge across the Ob River is the most difficult one, and we didn’t know how to approach at first. But we have the team that worked on the Crimean Bridge who knows how to deal with daunting engineering challenges, and they have found the solutions. All the engineering issues have been cleared by now,” Aryukhov added. 
China and Russia sign memorandum of understanding and cooperation in maritime law enforcement 
The Chinese Coast Guard and the Russian Federal Security Service signed a memorandum of understanding to strengthen maritime law enforcement cooperation. 
The document provides for increased cooperation between the parties in combating terrorism, arms and drug smuggling, countering illegal migration, preventing illegal fishing of marine bioresources, as well as carrying out rescue operations at sea. 
As part of the Russian FSB’s Border Guard Service chairmanship of the Arctic Coast Guard Forum (ACGF), exercises on countering threats to maritime security were held: Arctic Patrol 2023. Representatives of the Chinese Coast Guard attended as observers. 
"The Russian Federation has demonstrated a commitment to fulfilling the obligations it assumed in the framework of its ACGF chairmanship and its readiness to independently counter the range of risks and threats in maritime activity in the Arctic zone," the Border Guard press service said. 
Law enforcement and federal agencies in the exercise, practiced joint actions to search for and locate a vessel that had issued a distress alert, to stop a terrorist act and rescue the ship and the crew. They also practiced joint actions to clean up an emergency oil spill. 
Russian Government extends Northern Sea Route development plan 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has signed a directive that extends the plan for Northern Sea Route development to 2035. 
We are talking about the creation of Russian-made equipment that is crucial for building an ice breaker fleet, ice-breaker cargo ships and emergency and rescue vessels,” the Government press service says. 
The plan includes measures to develop and produce this type of equipment. The responsible parties will be the Ministry of Industry and Trade, Rosatom state corporation, the Ministry of Transport and the Emergencies Ministry. 
The Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Finance Ministry were charged with developing proposals regarding the volume and sources of funding for a program to create competitive Russian-made marine equipment. 
The Northern Sea Route development plan until 2035 was approved by the Government in August 2022. The document stipulates the construction of icebreakers, including the lead icebreaker in the Lider (Leader) project, as well as the building of a 46-vessel emergency and rescue fleet. The plan includes over 150 measures with total funding of almost 1.8 trillion rubles. 
The Northern Sea Route is the shortest water route between the European part of Russia and the Far East. The route is located completely within Russian waters and exclusive economic zone, which is especially important given the external sanctions pressure. 
Moscow hosts Russia’s Arctic Zone Public Council meeting 
On April 28, members of the Public Council of Russia’s Arctic Zone held a meeting as part of the business program of the 18th International Fair-Exhibition Treasures of the North: Masters and Artists of Russia-2023. 
Addressing the meeting, Director of the Arctic Zone Development Department Maksm Dankin discussed the implementation of measures in the program of state support for the traditional economic activities of the indigenous ethnic groups in the Russian Arctic. 
To implement the program, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic (Minvostokrazvitiya) allocated a subsidy worth 516.24 million rubles to three Arctic territories in 2022. The breakdown is as follows: the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia): 356.2 million rubles; the Nenets Autonomous Area: 79.46 million rubles; the Chukotka Autonomous Area: 80.59 million rubles. 
We provide state support for reindeer-breeding farms and traditional folk crafts. Several farms have received slaughterhouses and quad-copter drones. The living quarters of some reindeer breeders feature renewable energy sources. We have also built corrals and fences. In addition, we have established some social tourism infrastructure, and we are building transport and logistics centers under the Arctic deliveries program. It is necessary to pay attention to the northern reindeer-breeding sector and to measures ensuring reindeer breeders from among small indigenous ethnic group that their products would be sold on the domestic market,” Maksim Dankin noted. 
In 2023, the Government will spend an additional 450 million rubles on the program to support the indigenous northern ethic groups. The Government will also fund construction of reindeer-breeder anchor bases, economic and administrative facilities and service centers, as well as the creation of logistics and production centers and other measures to preserve the unique culture of the northern peoples and their traditions. 
The meeting participants also focused on a bill to specify the territory in the Arctic zone where it is possible to allot free land plots. It is necessary to coordinate the bill’s amendments with public organizations, including those representing the interests of the indigenous northern ethnic groups. The republics of Komi and Karelia submitted their bills. 
Film ‘The Chief of Chukotka’ has been restored for the film director’s 95th birthday 
On May 3, the Lenfilm movie studio will release a restored version of ‘The Chief of Chukotka,’ one of the best known films by Vitaly Melnikov, to mark the film director’s 95th birthday. 
For many years Vitaly Melnikov entertained the hope that his film The Chief of Chukotka would be restored,” the film studio press service said. Vitaly Melnikov died on March 21, 2022, shortly after the beginning of the restoration work on the film. Now it has been completed, and on May 3 Lenfilm will present the restored version of the film to the public.” 
Vitaly Melnikov shot The Chief of Chukotka in 1966. The story is set in 1922 when Commissar Glazkov is given an assignment to go to Chukotka to establish Soviet power. However, he dies during the long journey and only the young clerk Alexei Bychkov reaches the place of destination and then happens to become the chief of Chukotka.” 
The film was shot in two opposite corners of the country: for winter scenes they travelled to the Kola Peninsula and for summer scenes to Crimea. In the vicinity of Lisya Bay, which Vitaly Melnikov chose as a suitable shooting site, the filmmaking group was stopped by border guards, who explained that a secret missile base was stationed in that area and unauthorized individuals were not allowed to enter. However, Melnikov managed to settle this issue with the military authorities and shot the film in this area. 
Murmansk Region to provide staff counseling for those relocating to the Arctic 
An employment service called Course to the North has begun offering services in the Murmansk Region. As part of the service, the regional authorities hope to attract students and graduates from other regions of the country with professions that are in demand in the labor market on the Kola Peninsula. 
The service will also provide staffing support for people planning to move to the Murmansk Region to find employment. Support will include development of an individual plan, provision of various services and assistance in finding employment, and the selection of suitable work options. 
"State-financed organizations need specialists with advanced degrees like doctors, engineers, teachers, IT-specialists, while medical professionals, educators and musicians are in demand among mid-level specialists ," the Murmansk Region website reads. 
All of the service’s activities are designed to resolve the problem of staff shortages in a comprehensive way. The project is based at the regional employment centre where the program managers hope to encourage qualified specialists to consider state-financed organizations in the region. 
Consultations under the project can be obtained by telephone: 8 (815-2) 56-67-07. 
Northeastern Federal University launches multi-language Arctic website on the culture of the indigenous peoples 
A multi-language Arctic website on the language and cultural heritage of the indigenous peoples of the North, Siberia and the Russian Far East has been launched by Northeastern Federal University in Yakutsk. The website features information on the language and cultural heritage of 40 small-numbered indigenous peoples of the North, Siberia and the Russian Far East. 
The website also has a GIS map with the results of the 2020 census on the settlement, practical language used, areas of traditional economy, historical maps of the settlements of the indigenous peoples of the North, and others. 
The research is being conducted by UNESCO, the cartography lab of the Institute of Natural Sciences at Northeastern Federal University, and the Federal Service for State Registration, Cadaster and Cartography, as part of the Priority 2030 program to support and develop the country’s cultural and language diversity. 
Digital milestone in the Arctic: Unmanned vehicles transporting goods in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area 
The first unmanned KamAZ trucks began operating at the Vostochno-Messoyakhskoye Field, located on the Gydan Peninsula of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. Trucks transport goods along a 140-kilometer winter road connecting the oil field with the village of Tazovsky. 
The use of autonomous vehicles will improve the efficiency of the logistics in the company's northern fields and increase supplies of the necessary equipment and materials. 
We created the required infrastructure, tested and finalized the unmanned systems and the transport itself together with the developers, formed the regulatory framework, and trained employees. Now we are starting a new phase. Before the end of 2023, we will be ready to provide autonomous transportation services not only to Gazprom Neft, but also to other Russian industrial companies,” commented Dmitry Potapov, General Director of Gazpromneft-Snabzhenie. 
The navigation satellite system ensures the safety of unmanned cargo transportation. The vehicles are equipped with several types of sensors that build a digital road map, scan objects in the forward zone, recognize obstacles within a radius of 200 meters, and can detect static and moving objects. 
The unmanned column is controlled by Russian software. After the closure of winter roads, high-tech trucks will continue to work at sites where ground transportation does not stop during the summer. 
Artic Hectare program in Karelia to expand by 2,000 hectares 
Minister of Property and Land Relations of Karelia Yanina Svidskaya presented a bill to expand the reach of the Arctic Hectare program in the republic at the Russian Arctic Public Council in Moscow. The bill would add about 2,000 hectares of non-forest land to the program. 
Let me remind you that forests make up 96.8 percent of the land already included in the program, while settlements and agricultural land account for only 3.2 percent. We have almost run out of areas that are not covered in forest, and the proposed changes would allow more citizens to receive land plots for free use,” Yanina Svidskaya said. 
Following the discussions, the council approved the republic’s bill. This is a key stage that allows the bill to be submitted to the Legislative Assembly of Karelia for consideration. 
Since the launch of the program, the Republic of Karelia has issued more than 700 positive decisions, which is a good result among the regions that implement the Far Eastern Hectare and the Arctic Hectare programs. 
Arctic shipping initiative gets $91 million federal grant in Canada 
The Canadian federal government has allocated a $91 million research grant for the Qanittaq Clean Arctic Shipping Initiative, co-developed by the Inuit Circumpolar Council Canada and Memorial University in Newfoundland and Labrador. 
The initiative will create transformational change and enhance Canada’s position as a world leader in Arctic shipping,” a Qanittaq Initiative statement said. 
The project goals include creating a knowledge base to address Inuit shipping priorities, promoting the safety of ships operating in the Arctic, and protecting the Arctic environment. The initiative also aims to create the tools and solutions needed for ship design, improve the affordability, sustainability and efficiency of the Arctic fleet, provide evidence to modify national and international policies as regards ships operating in the Arctic, improve the quality of life for the Inuit, and enhance regional food security. 
François-Philippe Champagne, Federal Minister of Innovation, Science and Industry, noted that the government would disburse the grant for supporting the Qanittaq Clean Arctic Shipping Initiative over seven years. 
Russian-Chukchi phrase book reissued for the first time in 20 years 
A new Russian-Chukchi phrase book will be released in the fall of 2023 to replace the previous version, which was published more than 20 years ago. Publication will be paid for by a grant from the Chukotka Autonomous Area. 
According to the head of the public organisation Chychetkin Vetgav (Native Word) Viktoria Kavry, a longtime local teacher well familiar with the Chukchi language and culture, Vera Grachyova, is working on the new edition, which will be based on the Uelen dialect and will include words, phrases and sentences. 
We are also planning to include QR-codes leading to a voiceover website. At present, the phrase book is at St Petersburg’s Almaz-Graf publishing house. It will be published in 500 copies and paid for by the regional grant. We plan to present it in October-November 2023,” Viktoria Kavry said. 
Chychetkin Vetgav is also working on two more projects with the North-Eastern Federal University – the book Uelen’s Memory by Tatyana Pechetegina, a native of the Uelen village, and The Lessons of Our Ancestors’ Lives by Irina Gyrgolnaut, a keeper of traditions. The books are to be written this year and published in 2024. 
St. Petersburg scientists link planetary waves and climate change in the Arctic 
Climate change in the Arctic may be caused by fluctuations in atmospheric parameters, or planetary waves, such as pressure, density, temperature and wind speed, according to scientists at St. Petersburg State University. 
While studying planetary waves, physicists at St. Petersburg University discovered that the waves are capable of causing stratospheric perturbation resulting in extreme warming or drops in temperature in the Arctic and at the middle latitudes. Mathematical modeling of global atmospheric circulation was conducted by the university’s Laboratory of Ozone Layer and Upper Atmosphere Research created under the mega-grant program of the Russian Ministry of Science and Higher Education,” the St. Petersburg State University press service reported. 
The scientists studied the global atmospheric circulation of a series of planetary waves ranging from 3 to 16 24-hour periods. They specifically examined the effects of planetary waves lasting for 16 24-hour periods that can be observed in the atmosphere on a regular basis, with higher intensity during the winter in the northern hemisphere. This type of wave has been studied in the past using satellite and radar data; however, there has been no prior research into the impact of a 16-day wave on changing wind speed and temperature on the planet. 
A series of numerical experiments as well as atmospheric circulation modelling were needed for this study. We conducted the experiments to demonstrate that over a month, a single 16-day wave is capable of changing the speed of atmospheric currents (winds) by 5 percent on average. This percentage may seem small but we are speaking about a global continuous process that significantly affects the climate, including temperature,” the press service noted quoting Andrei Koval, doctor of physics and mathematics and Associated Professor of the Department of Atmospheric Physics. 
Koval argues that several planetary waves in aggregate can produce powerful wind and temperature perturbations in the stratosphere, which can resonate down to the surface of the planet, causing periods of extremely cold or warm weather in the Arctic region and at the middle northern latitudes. Fundamental research focusing on this phenomenon could improve the forecasting of changes and substantially mitigate the potential damage of such waves. 
Ministry for the Development of the Far East and Arctic plans to reduce coal production in Spitzbergen by two thirds 
Coal production in the Spitzbergen (Svalbard) archipelago will be reduced by two thirds, down to 40,000 tons per year, until 2032. 
The plan is to reduce coal production to the minimum required by the islands by 2032 [from 120,000 tons per year to 40,000 tons to cover the local thermal power plants’ needs],” Minister Alexei Chekunkov said at a meeting of the Council for the Development of the Far East, Arctic and Antarctic. He spoke about prospects for the future development of Spitzbergen. 
According to the minister, coal is not the future of the archipelago. Spitzbergen is of interest to tourists, those who are keen on adventures and are eager to explore new extraordinary destinations. 
The plan includes attracting tourist flows from friendly countries to the archipelago by establishing cruise ship trips and direct flights from Russia. 
In addition, it is planned to create an international research center for the BRICS member states and friendly countries, as well as to offer international educational programs. 
In 1931, the Arktikugol state enterprise was founded on the archipelago, which produces 120,000 tons of coal a year. Last year, the Russian government transferred the production facility to the Ministry for the Development of the Far East and Arctic for trust management. 
Minister for Development of Russian Far East and Arctic: 2 percent Arctic mortgage plans possible 
Alexei Chekunkov, the Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic (Minvostokrazvitiya), wants to prove that highly profitable soft, 2 percent, mortgage plans are possible in the Arctic and also persuade the Government to approve a document on expanding this mechanism to the Russian Arctic territories. 
Speaking at a meeting of the Council for the Development of the Far East, the Arctic and Antarctica under the Federation Council, Chekunkov noted that Minvostokrazvitiya advocated Arctic mortgages, and that it would facilitate the approval of the relevant document. This state support mechanism has yielded tremendous results in the Far East, he added. 
Our joint 4.2 billion ruble estimate (Editor’s Note: For Arctic mortgages) is part of the three-year budget, and there are plans to spend 11 billion in the period up to 2035. I am convinced that this federal budget investment will expand construction volumes and will generate a multiplier effect far exceeding this investment. Consequently, we will obtain more than we have invested. We will prove this, and we will obtain this permission (Editor’s Note: To spread soft, 2 percent, mortgages to the Russian Arctic),” the Minister said. 
In mid-April, Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy in the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev promised to persuade the Government to expand the 2 percent Far Eastern mortgage program to include the Russian Arctic. Over 67,000 families have improved their living conditions using the Far Eastern mortgage program that has also boosted investment in housing construction. Since the program’s inception three years ago, regional housing construction volumes have soared by 60 percent, to reach 3.8 million square meters. 
Russian Foreign Ministry does not rule out Russia’s withdrawal from Arctic Council 
Russia may leave the Arctic Council if its activities fail to contribute to the pursuit of the country’s national interests, said Nikolai Korchunov, Russian Foreign Ministry Ambassador at Large for International Cooperation in the Arctic and Senior Arctic Official at the Arctic Council. 
It is essential that we always have diversity of choice and maximum options in terms of ways to act, not depending on a single scheme. Anything is possible – particularly in the event that the Arctic Council’s work fails to facilitate the implementation of our national interests in the Arctic region and the pursuit of the goals and objectives envisaged in the Strategy for Developing the Russian Arctic Zone until 2035. Accordingly, if the format proves to be useless and non-beneficial, it will make no sense to be part of it. But we will wait and see," Korchunov said. 
He also noted that Norway, which took over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council, has stated it is willing to continue the council’s work and pursue the path of normalization. 
Prospects for further cooperation in the Arctic Council seem rather vague as it is unclear whether Norway will succeed in establishing the kind of interaction that would promote the constructive character of the council,” the diplomat noted. 
Previously, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov stated that the Arctic Council’s future would depend on the possibility of further civilized dialogue in the interests of preserving the Arctic as a region of peace, stability and cooperation. 
We believe that further effective work and the future of the Arctic Council in general will depend on whether we can collectively find possibilities to continue a civilized dialogue in the interests of preserving the Arctic as a territory of peace, stability and constructive cooperation. These are the objectives set forth in the 2021 Ministerial Declaration and the Strategic Plan of the Arctic Council until 2030,” Mr. Lavrov said in his video address to the participants in the 13th session of the Arctic Council. 
He emphasized that the Arctic region remains a priority for Russia, adding that during its chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021-2023, the country invariably acted in line with the common interest of ensuring the sustainable and safe development of the entire Arctic region and the wellbeing of its residents. 
Russian experts consider likely scenarios for the future of the Arctic Council 
Experts from the Russian International Affairs Council (RIAC) have released a study based on statements by the seven Western countries in the Arctic Council, from March 3 and June 8, 2022. 
In their study they have looked into the political and legal aspects of handling the environmental and economic issues in the northern polar region. 
According to the description of the study on the RIAC’s website, the authors of this analytical material have considered the likely scenarios of the future of the Arctic Council, taking account of existing research publications on the status of the council.” 
The first scenario provides for Russia initiating its own withdrawal from the Arctic Council in response to statements made by the Western countries, members of the Arctic Council, in 2022. In the second scenario, the Western countries, members of i the Arctic Council, will create an alternative inter-governmental mechanism for managing the Arctic that will not include Russia. 
In a third scenario, Russia keeps its membership in the Arctic Council as it is now while the Western countries are forecast to increasingly obstruct the actual participation of Russian representatives in the council’s activities. 
In addition, if Russia remains a member of the Arctic Council de jure, even in the most unfavorable political and legal circumstances that have been mentioned in the joint statements of the Western countries which are of the council, it will allow Russia to promptly respond to documents that the council develops,” says the study. At the same time the Western countries, members of the Arctic Council will be forced to seek generally accepted wording in the documents on the environmental and socioeconomic development of the entire Arctic.” 
The Russian International Affairs Council is a Russian membership-based non-profit organization. Through its activities the RIAC seeks to strengthen peace, friendship and accord between nations, prevent international conflicts and facilitate crisis settlement. 
Denmark updates foreign policy strategy to counter the Russian threat in the Arctic” 
Denmark said it intends to strengthen defense ties with other Nordic countries to counter the Russian threat in the Arctic and protect critical infrastructure under the kingdom's foreign and security strategy for 2023. 
According to the writers of the new strategy, Russia is an unpredictable actor – including in the Arctic and the North Atlantic. Together with our allies, this is something we must address.” 
Under the document, the Danish authorities intend to increase military spending to 2 percent of GDP by 2030. 
NATO and a strong transatlantic bond remain the linchpin for our security, and we must continue to strengthen the cooperation in the Alliance. We must bear our share of the burden in the Alliance. The government will therefore bring forward the phasing in of the long-term increase in regular spending on defense and security to 2 percent of GDP until 2030,” the strategy says. 
At the same time, the government of the kingdom will work to ensure that the Arctic does not become an arena of confrontation like other parts of the world. 
The government will continue working to ensure low tension and the continued development and protection of the Arctic region in close cooperation with the governments of Greenland and the Faroe Islands and with our international partners - even though it has become more difficult. Russia’s military forces in the Arctic are largely intact. China has long-term interests in the region. We will work to promote peace and security in the Arctic. The presence of the Danish Defence is to ensure improved surveillance and enforcement of sovereignty as well as to contribute to safeguarding the interests of the allies and NATO in the region,” the document says. 
Dmitry Artyukhov and Alexei Chekunkov discuss Yamal’s infrastructure and industrial development 
Yamal Governor Dmitry Artyukhov and Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov met to discuss the implementation of the Arctic Hectare programme, tax incentives for Arctic zone residents and other aspects of the socioeconomic development of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, the region’s press service reported. 
Yamal is a powerful economic driver in the country’s development. Today we discussed the implementation of projects and new initiatives aimed at boosting the infrastructure and industrial development of the region. We will continue to work jointly to improve the quality of life in our northern regions,” Alexei Chekunkov noted. 
Governor Artyukhov reported that 401 contracts under the Artic Hectare programme had been signed on Yamal, which joined the group of top three regions in terms of allocation of land plots. As much as 25 percent of the recipients have opted for using the land to build housing, open farms or other businesses, or recreation facilities. 
They also talked about the local businesspeople who had received the status of Arctic zone residents. These 79 entrepreneurs are implementing 82 projects with an aggregate investment of 26.9 billion rubles, which should create approximately 1,890 jobs. The majority of these businesses are working in services and real estate. The rest are implementing logistics, agriculture, tourism and fishing projects. 
These entrepreneurs have access to a package of support measures. They mostly apply for federal support, mainly reimbursements for insurance premiums and no-bid lease of land plots. Regional support packages provided to those who are working in priority areas (services and tourism) include income tax incentives for services providers and reduced corporate income tax, corporate property tax and land tax, and a simplified system of taxation for tourism providers. 
The future of the Arctic regions depends on more than their industrial development. We are aware of the high tourism potential in Yamal now that people have started travelling more around the country. For example, the number of tourists at Reindeer Breeder Day, the biggest celebration day in the north, has more than doubled over the past few years. Our businesses see this as an opportunity, and the number of regional travel agencies has increased several-fold. The ministry’s policy of stimulating investment activity in Arctic regions will help us improve services and thus the quality of life in the north,” Governor Dmitry Artyukhov pointed out. 
Alexei Chekunkov: Developing the NSR will improve the quality of life in the Arctic 
The Government of Russia has approved a plan to develop the Northern Sea Route until 2035. The Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, Alexei Chekunkov, told President Putin about the main details of the plan, the Ministry’s press service reported. 
The plan emphasizes the development of a cargo base. In addition to signing trilateral agreements with leading Arctic companies, managers of new projects will be encouraged to send their freight through the Northern Sea Route. Increased coastal and transit traffic will also be promoted. Jointly with Rosatomflot, the Ministry launched regular coastal service between Murmansk and Kamchatka in 2022 with incentivized freight carriage on the Northern Sea Route . We offered a subsidized tariff. The load on the first run was only about 15 percent (as shippers tested the new route) but it shot up to 90 percent on the second run. This year, there will be three runs; the number of ports of call has increased from four to 11, and the route has been extended to Vladivostok.” 
Export freight traffic is part of the plan. As for transiting, we expect a certain readjustment of targets in 2023-2024. A number of unfriendly countries are attempting to revise their declared plans for NSR transit shipping, but we see growing interest in using the route from China, India and the Southeast Asian countries,” Mr Chekunkov said. 
The second goal is creating land transport infrastructure. The Ministry is planning to build or upgrade 14 ports and terminals from Murmansk to Vladivostok. LNG terminals are being built in Murmansk and Kamchatka, which will be put into service this year and next year. Other construction projects include the Bukhta Sever oil loading terminal, the Lavna coal terminal, and the fertilizer transshipment Port of Tuloma. 
The third goal is developing the freighter fleet. A plan has been approved to build a new icebreaker fleet and an ice-class cargo fleet with 153 vessels combined. 
The main challenge in this regard is replacing a number of technologies from unfriendly countries. Our shipbuilders and the entire Russian industry are working through this challenge. You regularly visit the Zvezda Shipbuilding Complex in the Far East, which is focusing on the construction of ice-class tankers for the Northern Sea Route,” the Minister told President Putin. 
Fourth, it is necessary to ensure navigation safety on the NSR. This includes a new satellite cluster, better hydrographical and hydro-meteorological support, and development of rescue and medical infrastructure. Sixteen new rescue ships will enter service on the NSR between 2023 and 2025. 
The Emergencies Ministry is building the first of four planned rescue centers. Thirteen helicopters in tandem with icebreakers will cover the entire NSR. Space satellites will beam real-time ice reconnaissance data. We are planning to launch five satellites before the end of the year. Three days ago, Maxim Oreshkin and I inspected the launch-ready Condor-FKA satellite at the Vostochny Space Center,” he added. 
And fifth, we are centralizing NSR navigation management and development. 
Under your instructions, Rosatom has assumed the management functions for NSR navigation. Mr. Alexei Likhachev and his team are cooperating with the Government to provide a single ecosystem for all NSR participants, where consignors will receive logistics, ship captains – safe navigation guidance, and the state – a clear and transparent control system,” he said in conclusion. 
Moscow to put up new signs at 16 sites associated with Arctic development 
Street signs with QR codes have been approved for 16 sites associated with Arctic development in Moscow. The QR codes will provide information about pilots, sailors and expedition heads, and will show directions to the memorial plaques of explorers Georgy Ushakov and Vladimir Rusanov, the House of Polar Explorers, and the monument to Fridtjof Nansen. 
Before that, Moscow had QR codes with information about test pilots Georgy Baidukov and Valery Chkalov, polar explorer Otto Schmidt, Arctic explorer Ivan Papanin and other champions of Arctic development. 
Moscow began creating a unified navigation system as part of its comfortable urban environment in 2014. All navigation elements, such as building and city signs and information displays, comply with an approved standard. Blue signs with white letters are easy to read and blend seamlessly into the architectural environment. 
Since 2014, over 12,400 city and 97,100 building signs have been installed in Moscow, and another 5,000 are to be installed this year. 
Ministry of Natural Resources to prepare draft law on environmental monitoring along Northern Sea Route by August 
The Ministry of Natural Resources plans to develop a draft law on state environmental monitoring along the Northern Sea Route (NSR) by August, head of the department Alexander Kozlov said during a roundtable discussion on the problems of the Arctic and Antarctic, organized as part of the Nevsky International Environmental Congress. 
Together with Rosgidromet and Rosatom, we have prepared a draft concept for the state environmental monitoring system in the NSR. It should provide all interested users with reliable and complete information about the environment and pollution as well as updates and alerts on natural phenomena. By the end of July, we will develop and submit a draft federal law on this topic,” the minister said. 
Earlier, Kozlov noted that there was environmental monitoring on the NSR now, but it was necessary to expand the covered waters and the volume of parameters measured. The Ministry and experts are also discussing the requirements for vessels passing through Arctic seas. 
In his speech at the roundtable discussion during the Nevsky congress, Kozlov recalled that the first station of the state system for background monitoring of the condition of permafrost was recently opened in Salekhard. It was a well about 25 m deep with 32 sensors. It is planned that an integrated permafrost monitoring network will be deployed throughout the territory of the permafrost zone within the Russian Federation within three years (from 2023 to 2025). During this time, 140 stations will be installed. Based on the data obtained, scientists will be able to predict the consequences and learn how to prevent accidents in the permafrost. 
Yamal to create Tiutei-Yakhinsky Nature Sanctuary for unique walrus rookery 
A new protected area covering 10,000 hectares will appear in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area in the estuary of the Tiutei-Yakha River, Yamal Governor Dmitry Artyukhov wrote on his Telegram channel. 
The project to establish the Tiutei-Yakhinsky Nature Sanctuary was discussed during a public council meeting in Yamal’s Department of Natural Resources and Environment. 
With support from the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, we will create a new nature sanctuary in the river estuary. We all remember the important discovery made four years ago by our researchers – they found a large walrus rookery with more than a thousand animals. Since then, the walrus population has been growing, and the data collected give us reason to believe that this l population is a unique, Yamal one,” the Yamal governor wrote. 
All economic activities will be restricted in the sanctuary, which will help to protect the animals from unwanted attention and conduct research at the same time. 
Our walruses are safe and secure,” Dmitry Artyukhov wrote. 
Chelyuskin Expedition Monument to be erected in St. Petersburg 
A monument honoring members of the expedition aboard the SS Chelyuskin, a ship with icebreaker capabilities, will be unveiled in Uldelny Park, called Chelyuskin Expedition Park in 1934-1991, in St. Petersburg. The announcement was made during a roundtable discussion on the history of Russian achievements in the Arctic, hosted by the Russian Historical Society in its House. 
While preparing to mark the upcoming 90th anniversary of the Chelyuskin expedition’s rescue in February 2024, the Russian Historical Society contacted the Governor of St. Petersburg and suggested installing a monument in the Northern Capital. Alexander Beglov supported this proposal, and we are now jointly studying the issue of installing the new monument in Udelny Park, formerly Chelyuskin Expedition Park,” Chair of the Russian Historical Society Sergei Naryshkin said during the discussion. 
Deputy Governor of St. Petersburg Boris Piotrovsky, who also attended the event, said that the municipal government was ready to provide comprehensive assistance in installing the monument. He also suggested naming several local streets after famous polar explorers. 
We suggest naming the public garden on Pilot Pilyutov Street in honor of members of the Chelyuskin expedition,” Deputy Governor Piotrovsky said. (Editor’s Note: Pyotr Pilyutov was also involved in rescuing members of the Chelyuskin expedition). 
He mentioned another garden near Zanevskaya Square and suggested also naming it in honor of the ship’s passengers, as well as a public garden on Bering Street near the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute. 
Members of our toponymical commission can quickly name the local public garden in honor of Chelyuskin expedition members,” Boris Piotrovsky added. 
The Chelyuskin Expedition denotes the passengers of the SS Chelyuskin, which was supposed to sail from the White Sea into the Pacific Ocean, via the Northern Sea Route, during the short summer navigation season, thus repeating the heroic voyage of the crew of the icebreaker Sibiryakov, the first ship to accomplish this objective. During their experimental voyage amidst sea ice formations, the expedition was to prove that icebreakers and freighters could navigate the Northern Sea Route. 
On February 13, 1934, the SS Chelyuskin was crushed by ice floes in the Chukotka Sea, killing one man. In all, 104 expedition members, including 10 women and two children, were stranded on ice in the open ocean. It took two months to return them to the mainland. The rescue of the legendary ship’s crew and passengers became one of the most heroic and moving episodes of the Soviet era. 
Alexander Tsybulsky: Cultural heritage sites to be restored on Mudyug Island 
A memorial complex will be restored on Mudyug Island, located in Dvinskaya Bay of the White Sea, Arkhangelsk Region Governor Alexander Tsybulsky said at a roundtable discussion organized by the Russian Historical Society dedicated to the history of Russian achievements in the Arctic. 
Today, there are several buildings that have survived on Mudyug: a camp barracks, the mass graves of the victims of executions, and a monument to the memory of victims of the intervention during the Civil War of 1918-1920, all of which is part of the cultural heritage site,” Governor Tsybulsky said. 
According to Governor Tsybulsky, in a situation where Russia must once again defend its sovereignty, the importance of the Arctic in terms of security, economic development, and people’s everyday life is growing significantly. 
At the same time, it is extremely important to know and remember that Russia, the Russian North, has always been of interest to the West, both today and a century ago,” he added. 
In the period of foreign intervention, the goals were, like today, predatory. The interventionists planned to advance through the north of Russia into its heartland, divide this country into several states, establish a protectorate over them, and make it impossible for Russia to exist as a single sovereign territory,” he noted. 
Alexander Tsybulsky said in conclusion that currently the West was trying to erase the period of intervention from history, including the history of the concentration camp on the island of Mudyug. 
It will be recalled that in February 2023, during a meeting with President Putin, Governor Tsybulsky reported on plans to restore the memorial complex on Mudyug Island, which, along with the Yuryevsky defensive line, where the advance of foreign interventionists in the Russian North was stopped, should become a center for historical and patriotic tourism. 
Head of Yakutia: Fiber-optic communications line will appear in the Arctic regions in the next three years 
Yakutia plans to build a fiber optic communications line to all the Arctic regions in the republic in the next three years, said the head of the region, Aisen Nikolayev, at a meeting with President Vladimir Putin. 
"This global project, it costs somewhere around 10 billion rubles, but we are sharing the costs with the Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media, and now will attract [funds], including through DOM.RF. We want to cover it in three years, reach the shore of the Arctic Ocean, and then connect to the ocean fiber-optic communications cable that runs along the Northern Sea Route. Of course, in terms of security, it will increase the connectivity of our territory," said the head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) at the meeting. 
He also said that by 2028 the development of the largest gold deposit, Kyuchus gold mine with almost 200 tons of gold, and a number of rare-earth metals deposits, will start. 
"This will give good impetus to the development of the Arctic territory. Many issues, including the possible construction of a deep-water port, are being considered there now. This is not far from Tiksi," he added. 
Over 80 companies to offer tourism in protected nature areas in the Arctic 
Nature reserves and national parks in the Arctic have agreed with tour operators to stimulate demand for tourism in specially protected nature areas (SPNA), since Russians are interested in trips like this, said Alexei Tikhnenko, Deputy Director of the Department of State Policy and Regulation of SPNA at the Natural Resources Ministry. 
The Natural Resources Ministry, represented by nature reserves and national parks, has concluded agreements with tour operators and travel agents. In total, we have 88 agreements on the Arctic and over 230 agreements on the Far Eastern Federal District. In the course of this interaction, we see the highest interest among our citizens in visiting specially protected nature areas in the Arctic and the Far Eastern Federal District,” he said, speaking at a meeting in the Federation Council. 
As Mr Tikhnenko noted, the goal was to increase the tourist flow in specially protected nature areas to 10.3 million people by 2024 as part of the Ecology national project, but last year, these figures were already exceeded (14 million). 
Compared to last year, the number of tourists in specially protected nature areas in the Russian Far East has increased by 40 percent totaling 474,000 people. In the Arctic, tourist volumes increased by 25 percent, but this does not mean that there is less interest,” Tikhnenko emphasized. 
He recalled that in the next three years, 5.1 billion rubles, including at least 1.4 billion in 2023, will be allocated for the development of tourism infrastructure in specially protected nature areas. 
The Eastern Military District to remove 215 tonnes of scrap metal from Wrangel Island in 2023 
The combined environmental unit of the Eastern Military District plans to collect and remove some 215 tonnes of scrap metal from Wrangel Island in the Arctic throughout 2023, the Eastern Military District reports. 
Servicemen of the combined environmental unit of the Eastern Military District have started preparations for cleaning up the scrap metal from an area on Wrangel Island. The unit has been instructed to collect, compress, prepare and take away, on board third-party ships, about 215 tonnes of scrap metal, which adds up to22 twenty-pound containers,” the report says. 
The combined environmental unit tasked with collecting scrap metal on Wrangel Island has the strength of 40. They will operate modern truck cranes, Ural-based scrap trucks, KamAZ-based dump trucks, and tracked transporters. In total, about 18 units of equipment will be used. 
Wrangel Island is located in the Arctic Ocean between the East Siberian and Chukchi seas. It is part of the nature reserve of the same name and is an UNESCO World Heritage Site. All told, the EMD military collected and removed about 2,200 tonnes of non-ferrous and ferrous scrap from Wrangel Island in the course of work in the Arctic zone from 2015 through the summer of 2022. Over 215 tonnes of scrap was also collected during the 2022 season. 
Submissions open for Russian Arctic Literary Prize 
Writers from all over Russia can enter the contest for the Russian Arctic Literary Prize established by Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis and the Writers' Union of Russia. 
Writers from every part of Russia can submit their poetry and prose for the biannual award, given that these works reflect the Arctic. Winners in each of the three categories – Modern Prose, Modern Poetry, and The Kola Region: Gateway to the Arctic – will be awarded 250,000 rubles each. The winners and finalists will be invited to the Murmansk Region to participate in the Arctic Literary Landing project. 
The contest documents and rules for submitting entries are available on the website of the regional Ministry of Culture. 
This unique award was established to commemorate Vitaly Maslov, an author, polar explorer and public figure who lived and worked in the Murmansk Region, participated in the conquest of the Arctic on the world's first nuclear icebreaker, the Lenin, and revived the tradition of celebrating the Day of Slavic Literature and Culture. For many years, Maslov led the regional branch of the Russian Writers' Union. 
The prize was first awarded in 2022. The first winners included Kamil Ziganshin from Ufa for his novel Journey to the Chilly Sea; Andrei Popov from Syktyvkar for The Snowstorm poetry collection; and Murmansk author Dmitry Korzhov for the book The Unhumbled Painter and the novel Murmansk People. 
The State Duma Committee on the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic approves a draft law on artisan gold production 
The State Duma Committee on the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic unanimously voted to support several draft laws on artisan gold production, laying the legal and organizational foundation for gold production by self-employed businesspeople and other artisanal activities. 
According to Chair of the Committee on the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Nikolai Kharitonov, currently there are no laws regulating relations in gold production by private individuals. This is a gap in the law that must be removed to preclude private gold production and black market gold trade. 
Introducing legal regulation in this area is of particular importance for Russia’s Far Eastern and Arctic regions. This will make it possible to enhance the accessibility and appeal of artisanal activity and will help reduce illegal gold production and trade. It is no wonder that this legislative initiative has caused fierce debate among those involved in gold production,” he noted. 
Kharitonov said the draft law includes two keys principle for artisanal activity. 
A list of territories open to artisanal activity cannot be made unless it is proposed by the supreme executive body of a constituent entity of the Russian Federation. This means that a region will suggest a site based on its material, organizational and financial capabilities. In addition, the draft law defines constraints on an artisan’s use of certain means and methods of work and establishes a duty to maintain his or her mining claim. Likewise, the executive body in a constituent entity of the Russian Federation will be invested with supervisory powers with regard to artisanal activity. Thus, the draft law is designed to ensure a balance of private and public interests,” he said. 
In conclusion, he called on those at the meeting to keep in mind that a number of the draft law’s provisions need additional fine-tuning for the second reading; today, however, we should decide conceptually whether or not this proposed artisanal experiment has the legal right to exist.” 
The meeting was also addressed by representatives of the Far Eastern regions, via videoconference, including the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), the Republic of Buryatia, the Trans-Baikal Territory, the Khabarovsk Territory, and the Magadan Region, who generally supported the need to approve a law on the artisanal activities. 
Following a lively discussion, Deputy Chair of the Committee on the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Valentina Pivnenko suggested that the committee members establish a working group with representatives of the State Duma’s related committees and officials from federal executive agencies to consider the proposed amendments for the second reading. The participants in the meeting approved her proposal. 
US to open diplomatic mission in Arctic Norway 
Three weeks after Norway took over the chairmanship of the Arctic Council from Russia, US Secretary of State Antony Blinken announced that the United States would open its northernmost diplomatic station in the Norwegian Arctic city of Tromsø. 
To deepen our engagement in the High North, I’m announcing today that the United States will be opening an American Presence Post in Tromsø,” Blinken told reporters after a meeting of NATO foreign ministers in Oslo. 
According to him, the region is becoming more strategically important, as the shrinking ice cap opens up new sea lanes and attracts other countries looking for its largely untapped natural resources. 
For us, the presence post in Tromsø is really an ability to have a diplomatic footprint above the Arctic Circle,” he said. 
The mission will open later this year and will be staffed by one US diplomat. 
Earlier, on May 29, large-scale exercises kicked off in Finland, Sweden and Norway with the participation of about 150 combat aircraft from Western countries, including the United States, Britain, Belgium and France. In these countries bordering Russia, air maneuvers will last almost two weeks. 
Government expands support for indigenous peoples 
Starting January 1, 2024, producers in the sea-hunting industry will be able to use the special preferential tax schedule for agricultural producers: the single agricultural tax. The indigenous peoples of the North, Siberia and the Far East who are engaged in the sea-hunting industry, will be able to take advantage of tax incentives, according to the Russian Government website. 
According to the resolution signed by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, various types of raw materials in sea-hunting have been added to the list of agricultural products in primary processing. 
Product processors included on this list can apply for the preferential taxation schedule, the single agriculture tax (UAT). This exempts them from revenue tax, personal income tax (for individual entrepreneurs) and property tax if it is used in agribusiness. The UAT rate in each region is different, but cannot exceed 6 percent,” the report says. 
This transition to a preferential tax schedule for manufacturers of the sea hunting industry products will contribute to the development of the industry and the creation of additional jobs in the northern regions of Russia. 
Northern Fleet, RGO monitor Arctic seismic activity 
The Northern Fleet and the Russian Geographical Society (RGO) have completed the first stage of an expedition to Alexandra Land Island, part of the Franz Josef Land archipelago, with scientists conducting fundamental research in the field of seismic tectonics. 
A Northern Fleet military transport plane flew expedition members to Alexandra Land Island and back. While there, the scientists measured the coastal fast ice areas, collected ice samples and studied the physical properties of ice cores. They also measured salinity levels and local temperatures. There are plans to implement other diverse research projects in the future, including marine biology projects and the study of certain atmospheric parameters for radio communications purposes. Additionally, the expedition should result in recommendations for regional economic activities and their forms. 
Although the Arctic seems relatively quiet in terms of seismic activity, the results of joint expeditions involving the RGO, the Northern Fleet and the Russian Academy of Sciences have further information. According to Ruslan Zhostkov, the expedition’s head of research and a senior research associate with the Academy’s Institute of Physics of the Earth, the researchers have detected traces of ancient earthquakes in West and East Taimyr, on Wrangel Island, Novaya Zemlya and Franz Josef Land. 
If powerful seismic processes happened in the past, they are likely to repeat themselves. Scientists working on Alexandra Land Island conducted fundamental seismic tectonic research,” the Northern Fleet’s press service said. 
This expedition is part of a long-term program involving the RGO and the Russian Defense Ministry to study this region, including the Russian Arctic. The program continues research projects launched in the archipelago in 2021 when geological and geo-morphological research took place together with a project to monitor biodiversity and to count the local polar bear population. 
This year, the RGO is planning to work with the Northern Fleet to deploy permanent seismic stations in the eastern Arctic. The first stations will be located on the De Long Islands, Alexandra Land and later in mainland Russia. They will constantly monitor seismic processes for assisting residents of the Arctic as the least-studied region. 
Finnish Foreign Ministry: The Arctic Council will lose relevance without Russia's participation 
Finnish Minister of Foreign Affairs Pekka Haavisto believes that countering climate change in the Arctic without Russia's participation will become impossible, according to a Financial Times article. 
In the opinion of the politician, the end of interaction may result in an Arctic with no rules, or an Arctic area with no common goal for climate change. It would be free for everyone to use for shipping routes, for raw materials.” 
He said[jd1] the Arctic Council (AC) without Russia's participation would lose relevance, given that 40 percent of the Arctic region was part of the Russian Federation. 
"The agenda we want to promote in the Arctic doesn’t make much sense without Russia,” the minister said. 
It should be recalled that in spring 2022, Western states decided not to participate in the activities of the AC working bodies during the Russian presidency because of the special military operation in Ukraine. 
Russian Prime Minister holds strategic session on NSR development 
The development of the Northern Sea Route (NSR) is a key element in improving transport connectivity in the most hard-to-access territories of Russia. At the same time, implementing projects will generate additional budget revenue of more than 20 trillion rubles, Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said at the strategic session on the development of the Northern Sea Route. 
The dynamic and reliable shipping of construction materials and equipment are necessary for large projects like the Arctic LNG plant since these projects drive the development of related industries and the Arctic and Far Eastern regions in general,” he said. 
The creation of infrastructure in the Polar North will make it possible for Russian businesses to freely redirect cargo to the east or to the west while remaining in Russian territorial waters and exclusive economic zone, which substantially increases the marketability of Russian companies in global markets,” the prime minister noted. This will also provide a shipping alternative to Russian Railways’ Eastern Operating Domain, the BAM and the Trans-Siberian Railway, which will not be enough in the long run. 
Our job is to ensure that there is a cost-efficient shipping base with room to grow,” Mishustin said. 
The key investors in these projects are Vostok Oil, Novatek, Gazprom Neft, Nornickel, Northern Star, and Baimskaya. Arctic companies expect to increase shipping volumes to over 190 million tons in the next few years. 
These projects will generate additional budget revenue of more than 20 trillion rubles, meaning that each invested ruble will return around 30 rubles to the budget,” the prime minister noted. 
In May, Minister for the Development of the Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov said at a meeting with President Vladimir Putin that in 2023 leading Arctic companies pledged to send at least 30 million tons of cargo through the NSR this year, and at least 71 million tons next year. About 190 million tons of cargo is expected in 2030. In order to form a shipping base, promising cargo shipments from new projects will be attracted, and cabotage and transiting will be developed, he said. 
Chekunkov also noted growing interest in using the NSR from China, India, and states in Southeast Asia. 
Ural Automotive Plant unveils new Arctic bus 
The Ural-427701-75 Arctic bus was unveiled in Chelyabinsk at a national forum called From Import Substitution to Technological Sovereignty. 
We manufacture virtually everything, from nuts to rockets. South Ural technology operates all over the world, including African deserts and the snow-covered Arctic,” Chelyabinsk Region Governor Alexei Teksler noted. 
The new bus features a one-box design and metal-frame body with vibration dampers mounted on a chassis. It can accommodate 22 passengers in a comfortable setting. 
An improved heating, ventilation and air conditioning (HVAC) system ensures optimal temperatures inside the compartment. The body has small glued windows and thicker insulation panels. The air conditioner distributes airflow along rows of seats. Every passenger seat has a USB port, and swing-open tables have built-in wireless chargers. 
The vehicle is designed to carry passengers along rutty roads and winter roads, and can operate at minus 50 degrees Celsius. The Arctic bus’s wide and low-pressure tires reduce specific pressure on the surface, down to 0.45 kgf/cm. 
The Arctic bus project was launched in March 2021. In an effort to achieve the goals of the state program for the socioeconomic development of the Russian Arctic, the Ural Automotive Plant, South Ural State University and Bauman Moscow State Technical University drafted proposals for developing a family of hi-tech commercial vehicles that would safely carry passengers and mobile social facilities in the Extreme North. The Russian Ministry of Science and Higher Education supported the proposals that formed the mainstay of the comprehensive project. 
Polar explorer evacuated from North Pole ice-resistant platform for health reasons 
One of the members of the North Pole-41 expedition had to be evacuated for health reasons. The patient is currently in a hospital in the city of Tromsø, the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute press office reports. 
One of the polar explorers at the drifting station felt unwell in the early hours of June 6. The ship's doctor examined the patient thoroughly, including ultrasound imaging, diagnosed the problem and began treatment. However, the treatment did not lead to an improvement in the patient's condition. After consultation with doctors on the mainland and the AARI management, it was decided to evacuate the patient and deliver him to the hospital,” the AARI statement reads. 
The institute contacted the Murmansk Maritime Rescue Coordination Center of the Maritime Rescue Service and explained the situation. The center chose the best option, which was to seek help from the rescue center of Norway’s Joint Rescue and Coordination Centre (JRCC - North Norway) in Svalbard. 
After all the necessary approvals and consultations, the Norwegian side confirmed it was ready to transport the patient,” the source said. 
A helicopter landed on the helipad of the North Pole platform in the evening of June 6. The patient was re-examined by the doctors who arrived, and they confirmed the need and possibility of evacuation. After refueling, the helicopter headed for Longyearbyen on the Spitsbergen (Svalbard) Archipelago with the patient on board. From there, he was taken by ambulance to a hospital in Tromsø. 
The patient has already been provided with all the necessary medical care at the hospital. He is in serious but stable condition, which is not life-threatening,” the institute said in a statement. 
The evacuation operation was carried out in accordance with the International Convention on Maritime Search and Rescue and existing bilateral agreements between the Russian Federation and the Kingdom of Norway. 
New subspecies of Arctic butterfly discovered in Yakutia 
A new subspecies of Arctic butterfly has been studied and described by scientists from Tomsk and Altai state universities. The subspecies lives only in Yakutia in the uplands of the Arga-Tas mountain range. A naturalist from Lipetsk, Yury Bakhayev, discovered the new insect. A scientific article published in the Ecologica Montenegrina journal (Q1) describes the previously unknown representative of northern fauna. 
The Arctic Apollo butterfly (Parnassius arcticus) is a unique and the northernmost species endemic to the Arctic, to northeastern Yakutia. Several populations are known to live scattered at a distance of 200–500 km on the high mountain Verkhoyansk, Momsk and Suntar-Khayata ranges. These are remote areas, it is extremely difficult to get there, so the local biodiversity is poorly studied,” said Roman Yakovlev (Ph.D. in Biology), a scientist at the Biological Institute of TSU and ASU. 
One of the characteristics of the Parnassius arcticus is that it is monophagous: its caterpillars feed only on one plant, the Corydalis gorodkovii. In addition, the Parnassius arcticus is almost the only species of diurnal butterfly that lives in the highlands of the mountain ranges of northeastern Yakutia. 
Naturalist Yury Bakhayev, a journalist from Lipetsk, discovered this rare subspecies and also co-authored the scientific article. For many years, he has been studying northern nature, choosing remote and completely unexplored areas for expeditions. 
A previously undiscovered subspecies of northern butterfly was found in the uplands of the Arga-Tas mountain range. The subspecies has a clear external difference from other representatives of Parnassius arcticus and, at the same time, has significant genetic differences. We dedicated the description of this representative of northern fauna to Roman Shavlov, an amateur naturalist from Yakutsk, who has been studying northern nature for many decades. The new subspecies was named Parnassius arcticus shavlovi in his honor,” Roman Yakovlev explains. 
The specialist noted that northern fauna is very sensitive to warming, so scientists use it as an indicator of climate change. New fundamental data obtained in the course of research will become the starting point in studying the development of northern fauna and monitoring the environmental transformation in the Arctic. 
The Arctic Port of Tiksi receives international status and is open to foreign ships 
The Port of Tiksi, in northern Yakutia, on the coast of the Laptev Sea, will receive international status and will be open to foreign ships. The corresponding resolution was signed by Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin. 
This decision will create conditions for launching an investment project to build a deep-sea port hub near the village of Naiba. Cargo turnover could be about 30 million tons per year,” the government website reads. 
The project developers believe implementation will contribute to the creation of new transshipment capacity and new jobs, and the development of not only the port itself, but also the Northern Sea Route, which is especially important in the face of the external sanctions pressure. 
Previously, the government of the Chukotka Autonomous Area expanded the territory of the seaport by adding new land and water areas near Cape Nagleynyn. A sea terminal will be built there for the shipment of products from the Baimsky Mining and Processing Plant. This corresponding resolution was also signed by Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin. 
St. Petersburg hosts Russian-Chinese meeting on Arctic issues 
St. Petersburg was the venue for a Russian-Chinese meeting called Arctic Cooperation in New Conditions, organized by St. Petersburg University. Representatives of the City Committee on Arctic Affairs took part in the event, part of the regional aspect of the national project Science and Universities. 
The meeting involved representatives of Ocean University of China in Qingdao and the Shanghai Institute of International Relations. Members of both countries’ academic communities discussed research and international collaboration on Arctic issues. The event participants reviewed prospects for Russian-Chinese transport and logistics cooperation in the Arctic and raised issues of expanding relations within Arctic Council activities in new conditions. 
The Arctic can become another factor in strengthening cooperation, including science and education cooperation, between our states. In this respect, St. Petersburg serves as a key scientific center and the main international communication platform on Arctic issues in Russia. The Arctic agenda can provide an additional impetus to expanding bilateral relations,” said Sergei Nikolayev, Head of the Department for Cooperation with the Arctic Region. 
According to the objectives of the national project Science and Universities, Russia should become one of the top-five leading countries implementing high-priority research and development projects. 
Russian Foreign Ministry: Russia will respond to Iceland’s move to downgrade relations 
The Foreign Ministry of Iceland said it asked Russia to scale back its diplomatic activities in Reykjavik due to the all-time low in commercial, cultural and political relations between two countries. The Russian Foreign Ministry said in its response that the move destroyed the whole edifice of relations, which were traditionally rooted in mutual respect and multifaceted cooperation. 
It is well known that the Russian Federation made an important contribution to the establishment of a sovereign Icelandic state, was one of the first countries to recognise its independence, and did much to protect the interests of Iceland during the difficult times for the Icelandic people,” reads the Russian Foreign Ministry’s statement. 
It goes on to say that the responsibility for this development lies squarely with Iceland. 
We will take this unfriendly decision into account when building our relations with Iceland in the future. There will inevitably be a response to all of Reykjavik's anti-Russia actions,” according to the statement. 
Record number of gyrfalcons spotted in Yamal 
Researchers from the Arctic Research Station of the Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology at the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences logged a record number of gyrfalcons – 12 nests at once – during an expedition to Labytnangi. In nine of them, the parents continue to incubate their eggs, and in the rest, the first chicks have already hatched. 
The researchers observed the gyrfalcons nesting on the world's northernmost railroad, the Obskaya-Karskaya, where these endangered birds build their nests on bridge crossings of the railroad. 
The scientists installed motion-sensor cameras at each nest to track the breeding success of birds. In total, they counted 30 adults on the railroad, which is a record for all the years of observation. 
The growing population of the gyrfalcon, an apex predator of the Arctic, speaks to the favorable state of the Yamal ecosystems. Above all, this growth has been facilitated by the high number of partridges in recent years, which is the main prey of the gyrfalcon. In July, we plan to return to the railroad in order to remove the motion-sensor cameras and take samples for genetic analysis,” said Alexander Sokolov, a senior researcher at the Arctic Research Station of the Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology at the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
The scientist emphasizes that the Obskaya-Karskaya railroad has created unique conditions for the gyrfalcon to move to the north of its natural range. The growing population of gyrfalcons and the successful breeding of offspring are evidence of the competent and careful operation of the railway. 
First cargo delivery by drone to a settlement in Nenets Autonomous Area 
Test drone launches for cargo delivery have started in the Nenets Autonomous Area. The first flight took place on the Naryan-Mar to Andeg to Naryan-Mar route, where the UAV delivered medicines for the local medical and obstetric centre. The event was attended by area Governor Yuri Bezdudny. 
A special site was equipped for the test flights near the oil depot in the settlement of Iskateley. Before the take-off, the Director of the Center of Competences for Aerospace Technologies T1, Konstantin Shadrin, told the head of the region about the test drone prototype. The maximum lifting weight of the device is five kilograms, but, according to Konstantin Shadrin, more powerful UAVs will be sent to the area in the near future. 
"At the next stage, the aircraft will have a capacity of 25 kg, and we will perform much more different kinds of tasks. Moreover, on your instructions, we are now working on a model with a payload capacity of 150-200 kg. I think we will be able to report to you by the end of the year on delivery dates for such a drone. In general, it is great that a month after we signed the agreement, we began flight operations," Konstantin Shadrin reported to the Governor. 
After receiving permission from the head of the region for the flight, the drone with the cargo for Andega took off into the sky and headed in the direction of the village. Its flight was monitored by laptop from the command post. The drone flew at a speed of 110 kilometers per hour. The flight time to Andega was 15 minutes. The entire test flight to and from the village, including landing to deliver the medical supplies, took 40 minutes. 
The drone also flew back with cargo. Valentina Abakumova, head of the Andega Village Council, sent candies for children and a letter of gratitude. 
"The parcel was received intact. Thank you very much! We hope that in the future parcels to Andega will be mainly delivered this way," Valentina Abakumova wrote in her letter. 
President of Russia signs law on nomadic education institutions 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin signed a law on nomadic education institutions. The document allows state agencies to create favorable opportunities for small indigenous ethnic groups, so that their members can study at preschool and primary education institutions. 
For this purpose, the concerned authorities will establish nomadic institutions in areas where these small indigenous ethnic groups live and where they conduct economic activities. More lenient license requirements will apply to such education institutions. Their managers will no longer have to submit documents certifying that the relevant buildings, structures, premises, equipment and other properties for teaching children under education curricula, listed in licenses, comply with sanitary regulations. 
From March 1, 2024, the Russian Ministry of Education will determine the specifics of establishing such institutions. 
Senators Lilia Gumerova, Rimma Galushina and Grigory Ledkov drafted the bill. Previously, regional authorities alone regulated the issue of teaching nomadic children. 
Murmansk to host second ‘The Arctic: Breaking the Ice’ forum and festival 
On June 22–25, Murmansk will host the second, ‘The Arctic: Breaking the Ice’ national forum and festival. The participants will discuss the creation of a comfortable urban environment, the development of Arctic tourism, the use of modern technologies in the Arctic and other topics as part of Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship in 2021-2023. The chairmanship event operator is Roscongress. 
The participants in the business program will also discuss developing the Northern Sea Route (NSR) and the system for environmental monitoring in NSR waters, the functional aspects of specially protected nature areas and the general clean-up” of the Arctic. In addition, the program includes brainstorming sessions with volunteers, following which reports will be presented to experts and the heads of related departments. 
Volunteers will take part in the Arctic night clean-up in the polar village of Abram-Mys and the recovery of a sunken ship. They will also attend workshops from the Russian Emergencies Ministry dedicated to mountaineering, first aid in road accidents and open water assistance, as well as diving and survival in the natural environment. Volunteers will be able to test themselves during the popular team sports game, Clean Arctic Heroes Race. 
The cultural part of the program includes the Victory Train mobile museum and the Lenin Nuclear Icebreaker exhibition center, a viewing of the film Nuremberg, and a meeting with the cast and crew, as well as technical tours to Arctic enterprises, such as Atomflot, Lavna, a future transport hub for the Northern Sea Route, and the Siberian Coal Energy Company. 
Volunteers of the Clean Arctic public project will be participants in the forum, and representatives of federal and regional authorities, legislative bodies, heads of the Russian Arctic constituent entities, as well as experts from environmental organizations will be included among the speakers. 
The second forum has been organized by the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic with support from the NGO Clean Arctic. 
The first ‘The Arctic: Breaking the Ice’ national forum and festival was held on August 16-18, 2022, in the city of Usinsk, Komi Republic. The forum was attended by volunteers from all regions of the Russian Federation. 
The Arctic: Breaking the Ice festival begins in Murmansk 
The second national forum and festival The Arctic: Breaking the Ice has started in Murmansk, bringing together 200 volunteers from 89 regions of Russia, as well as from abroad. 
Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrei Chibis attended the opening ceremony in person to greet the volunteers. In his remarks, he said that the forum offers an ideal platform for discussing efforts to offer a favorable environment for future professionals and specialists who have the expertise” we need to develop the northern regions. 
The project we are launching today pursues specific objectives and it is up to us to deliver on them. These include Arctic tourism, environmental protection, modern technology for monitoring the marine environment, development of the Northern Sea Route and protection for designated natural sites,” Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis said. 
The governor also read out a message of greetings from President Vladimir Putin, who wrote that the state has been paying special attention over the past years to promoting the exploration and harmonious development of the Arctic, while preserving its unique natural richesses.” 
It is notable that volunteers, students and representatives of public organizations and businesses, who are energetic and caring people with a responsible stand in society and life, are actively contributing to dealing with these challenging issues,” the President wrote in his message. 
The message went on to say that volunteers helped clean up 110 hectares of Arctic land and remove over 5,000 metric tons of waste. 
The delegates also received written messages of greetings from Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev and Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov. 
The Arctic: Breaking the Ice forum is a unique platform for coming up with solutions to the key issues on the climate and environmental agenda, including Northern Sea Route development and marine environment monitoring, the operation of specially protected natural areas and a major effort to clean up the Arctic,” the Deputy Prime Minister pointed out. 
Leaders of the Clean Arctic civil-society initiative Ruslan Gubaidullin and Andrei Nagibin addressed the volunteers in person. 
I am calling on you to focus during the forum on receiving a boost of energy and becoming even more active, since the best of you will get to travel to a very interesting place,” Andrei Nagibin pointed out in his remarks. 
For us, volunteers are more than just people involved in clean-up initiatives. They are those who can take the good and positive things they do back to their families. I hope that you will keep the best memories from this forum,” Ruslan Gubaidullin added. 
This forum and festival will run until June 25 as part of Russia’s 2021-2023 Arctic Council chairmanship. The Roscongress Foundation acts as the operator of the events organized during Russia’s chairmanship. 
Victory Train Museum opens in Murmansk 
The Victory Train arrived at the Murmansk railway station for the third time. An actual train with nine cars, the exhibition is designed for visitors to explore the history of railways during the Great Patriotic War. To get on board, visitors need special free tickets that can be downloaded from the official website of the project at поездпобеды.рф. 
The exhibition will be available in Murmansk until June 24; from June 25 to June 26, it will run in Apatity, and from June 27 to 28 in Kandalaksha. 
This time, more residents in northern Russia will be able to visit the train, which will stop, in addition to Murmansk, in Apatity and Kandalaksha. In 2023, a new car was added to the touring museum in addition to the unique display on the Great Patriotic War and the heroic feat of the Soviet people. The new car focuses on the military tribunals of the Nazis and their allies, such as the Nuremberg, Tokyo and Khabarovsk trials,” Andrei Chibis said earlier, at a briefing session with the government of the Murmansk region. 
The exhibition is one of the events held as part of the Arctic: The Ice has Broken festival, the second nationwide festival and forum of volunteers, which takes place in Murmansk on June 22-25, 2023. 
Victory Train is the world's first train-based immersive installation. It tells the story of the pre-war years and the Great Patriotic War through visual art, as well as interactive and conventional exhibit formats. The train includes eight display cars, each dedicated to a different period of the 1940s. This year, a new car was added commemorating the heroic defenders of the Brest Fortress. 
Part of sunken ship raised from floor of Kola Bay 
During the second Arctic: Breaking the Ice, National Forum and Festival of Volunteers, volunteers lifted part of a sunken ship weighing 80 tons from the bottom of Kola Bay in Murmansk. A special floating crane was used. 
There’s a warship graveyard here, ships that were never disposed but that simply sunk here,” Andrei Nagibin, head of the Clean Arctic project office, said. 
Also on Youth Day, several hundred volunteers collected 24 bags of plastic, 67 bags of household waste, 13 bags of glass, and 11 bags of metal on 1.5 kilometers of the coast along Kola Bay. 
During past events, forum volunteers have cleaned about 12,000 square meters of the western coast of Kola Bay and collected 30 cubic meters of garbage during the night cleaning. 
All the events were held as part of the Clean Arctic’s second Arctic: Breaking the Ice National Forum and Festival of Volunteers held as part of the plan for Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. The chairmanship event operator is the Roscongress Foundation. 
About 200 people from 89 regions of the Russian Federation took part in the events, and also volunteers from Mongolia, Bolivia, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Slovakia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. The speakers at the forum were representatives of federal and regional authorities, legislative bodies, heads of the Russian Arctic regions, and experts from environmental organizations. 
Pension supplements for northern and rural workers will be paid without application 
Starting in 2024, supplemental payments on farm worker pensions for long periods of work in the Far North will be approved in an application-free procedure. 
"The new procedure will relieve citizens of the need to submit applications and documents to the local offices of the Social Fund and will help save time. Citizens will be informed of the recalculation of their pension within three working days of the date of the approval via the public services portal or by mail," the press service of the State Duma Committee for the Development of the Far East and Arctic said. 
At the same time, starting in 2026, the application-free procedure will also be in force for granting supplemental payments to pensions to citizens who have worked in the agriculture sector for at least 30 years. More than 500 professions are eligible for this bonus, including agronomists, beekeepers, tractor operators and mechanics who repaired agricultural machinery. The main requirement is that the workplace must be an agricultural enterprise involved in the production, cultivation and processing of agricultural products. 
Murmansk Region presents program to attract skilled workers to the Arctic 
Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis presented the ‘Heading for the North’ program which includes employment assistance for those relocating to the region and wanting to find a job there. 
Heading for the North is an employment assistance service for those who want to relocate to the Arctic, those who receive job offers there, and for university graduates. The local government believes that the program will help create a friendly atmosphere and will help in dealing with everyday issues related to accommodation, receiving concessions and lump sum payments. 
The complete roadmap for relocation is individualized. We invite strong people who want to leave a mark in history and become part of major projects being implemented in our territory,” Chibis said. 
According to the governor, the Russian Arctic and the Murmansk Region have great strategic importance for the country’s economy; it is a logistics center with more major infrastructure being built. The Murmansk Region possesses large deposits of mineral resources: apatites for fertilizers that are sought after in world markets, nickel, cobalt, and half of Russia’s lithium reserves. 
The government is working to connect the region to the gas distribution system. The unique production of floating power plants by Novatek is located there. All of these factors boost industrial production, which means an increasing number of jobs and the need for personnel. I am confident that these people should live in the North, and not just rotate in and out,” Chibis said. 
The acting rector of Murmansk Arctic University, Irina Shadrina, said the Russian Arctic zone requires 182,000 personnel through 2035, 60,000 in the Murmansk Region. The university will also be engaged in training skilled workers. 
According to the Murmansk Region governor, the region’s personnel development strategy is based on young people who already live there. The regional government is doing everything in its power to improve the cities, the education environment and create attractive conditions for experts who relocate to the region. For instance, in the Murmansk Region, skilled workers under 35 are paid an additional polar” allowance starting the first month of employment. 
The governor noted that following the Living in the North project, the working-age population increased by 4,000 in 2022. 
The politician said all of this at the Second Russian Volunteer Forum-Festival, The Arctic: Breaking the Ice, held as part of Russia’s chairmanship in the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. The operator of the chairmanship’s events is Roscongress. 
NATO summit to adopt plan to counter Russian Federation in the Arctic 
NATO countries will approve a defense plan to combat major threats in the European Arctic at their summit. 
We will take further major steps to strengthen our deterrence and defence. <...> One plan for the north, the Atlantic and European Arctic; one for the centre, covering the Baltic region and central Europe; and a southern plan for the Mediterranean and Black Sea" explained the organization's Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg. 
According to Stoltenberg, "to execute these plans, NATO is putting 300,000 troops on higher readiness, including substantial air combat power". 
Earlier it became known that NATO wasis going to approve new plans at the summit, including further military build-up near Russia's borders, strengthening the level of coordination between the military departments of member states and the collective command of the Alliance, as well as increasing the combat readiness of NATO units in case of a possible confrontation with Russia. 
According to the NATO Secretary General, for the first time since the Cold War, the Alliance will fully link planning in collective defense with planning for its forces, capabilities, command and control, and will expand its exercise program. 
Russian scientists can estimate frequency of Arctic rogue wave events 
Specialists from the Marine Hydrophysical Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences have completed a research study that describes how to estimate the frequency of rogue wave events. 
The survey is very important in evaluating possible environmental impacts, risks in Arctic marine activity, and in the operation of transport systems and engineering structures, including oil and gas platforms. 
Maria Yurovskaya, a senior research associate with the Long-Distance Research Methods Department at the Marine Hydrophysical Institute at the Russian Academy of Sciences, co-authored the research paper. According to Yurovskaya, the project expands on research projects completed in 2019. At that time, scientists created a simple, versatile model for predicting the height of cyclone-induced waves. 
We upgraded and tested this model, including for polar conditions. We identified certain natural laws that were overlooked in the past,” Yurovskaya explained. 
In studying the probability of rogue wave events caused by polar cyclones, scientists used satellite data and statistical analysis. The research considered various parameters of these tremendous atmospheric vortexes, including maximum wind speeds, duration, diameter, propagation speed and direction. 
In the long run, they were able to estimate the frequency of rogue wave events. It turned out that 4-meter-plus waves can form up to six times a year; 8-meter plus waves form two or three times a year; 10-meter-plus waves form about once a year; and 12-meter-plus waves form once every few years. The tallest waves, over 15 meters, form about once a decade. 
The research authors also identified areas that are most prone to rogue wave events. Strong storms can hit the immediate coastal zone around the Scandinavian Peninsula, starting with North Cape (Nordkapp). 
Polar cyclones mostly impact the southern regions of the Barents Sea and the northeastern area of the Norwegian Sea. Rogue waves form more often in the southern areas of the Norwegian Sea, but they are not always related to polar cyclones. Our evaluations can be useful when designing high-seas structures and planning operations in the Arctic seas,” Maria Yurovskaya noted. 
Deepwater and passenger terminals to be built at the Port of Tiksi 
The Port of Tiksi will be included on the list of ports open to foreign ships. Port modernisation plans include reconstruction of the existing Port of Tiksi, construction of a deep-water terminal in Naiba, and the building of a passenger terminal in the Neyolovo District for socially important passenger transfers and the development of cruise ship tourism. 
The Tiksi seaport remains one of the most important transport and logistics hubs for our republic, especially considering the plans for investment projects in the Arctic zone in Yakutia and the shipments of socially significant goods. 
Modernisation of the port is vital for developing the Northern Sea Route and the entire national sea transport infrastructure,” said Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Aisen Nikolayev during his visit to the Bulunsky District on July 10. 
The construction of a new deepwater port in the village of Naiba will create over 2,500 jobs. The project will become a driver for mineral deposit development, new roads, shipbuilding, the power industry and the social infrastructure. 
According to a comprehensive engineering survey, the safety of Pier 11 and Pier 12 is estimated at 87.6% and 88.7%, respectively. The hydro-technical structures are in working order. 
The governor added that it is necessary to achieve the goals set in the concept for the development of the Northern Sea Route – to create a major Emergencies Ministry rescue centre and build a deepwater satellite port in Naiba. 
In the past few years, the Port of Tiksi has processed between 15,000 and 30,000 tonnes of cargo. The port basin is 96.76 square kilometres and the landsite is 7.29 hectares. The Tiksi seaport has eight berthing facilities, seven of which are federal property and one is an oil loading dock that belongs to the republic. 
Arctic Center of Epic Literature and Arts project 35 percent complete 
The Arctic Center of Epic Literature and Arts project is currently 35 percent complete. As Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Aisen Nikolayev noted, the center will consolidate the epic heritage of the Yakutian peoples and become a specialized venue for creative groups from all uluses (districts) and cities. 
A reinforcement-bar structure of 14,000 cubic meters has been built at the site. Construction crews are currently working on the reinforced walls, columns, ceiling slabs and on assembling column formwork and ceiling slabs. 
More than 200 people and seven units of equipment are currently involved in the construction project. 
The center will become one of the largest cultural facilities in the Russian Far East and Russia in general. The seven-story facility will cover 33,000 sq. meters. The building is 36.7 meters high, with 1,530 seats in theaters and 15,400 sq. meters of landscaped grounds. 
The new building will comprise the State Philharmonic, the Olonkho Theater and Platon Oiunsky Sakha Academic Theater. Ancillary function rooms will include a hall for public events, a hall for exhibitions and ritual displays, exhibition space, small and large rehearsal halls, a sound recording studio, cafes and a restaurant. 
Equipped with modern lighting, multimedia and acoustical equipment, the center will have the capacity to hold a variety of events in the same venue, from classical music concerts to major theater productions. 
Also, as part of the project, the shoreline of Lake Saisary in Yakutsk will be reinforced and turned into a promenade. 
Russian Foreign Ministry: NATO aims to bring military confrontation to the Arctic 
The Russian Foreign Ministry has assessed the outcome of the NATO summit in Vilnius, a press statement said. 
The results show that NATO has ultimately returned to its Cold War schemes, this time to protect their one billion” from the other part of humanity based on the ideology of dividing the world into democracies and autocracies,” the ministry’s press statement said. 
The Russian side noted that NATO is whipping up militarization and aggravating military-political tensions to ensure superiority in its efforts to continue its provocative expansionist policy. 
The bloc is continuing its efforts to catch Georgia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, as well as Moldova, in its nets. NATO’s expansionist aspirations are not limited to the Euro-Atlantic region. Having swallowed Finland and (almost) swallowed Sweden without any public discussion or referendum, NATO is trying to bring military confrontation to the Arctic. It is also actively infiltrating the post-Soviet space,” the statement emphasized. 
The alliance recognizes Russia as ‘retaining a substantial military capability in the Arctic.’ 
China sends 13th scientific expedition to Arctic Ocean 
On July 12, a Chinese scientific expedition set off from Shanghai for the Arctic Ocean aboard the Xue Long 2 icebreaker. The 13th expedition is expected to cover about 15,500 nautical miles and return at the end of September. 
The research will focus on two main regions of the Pacific sector of the central part of the Arctic Ocean and the mid-ocean ridge, and address four main tasks: long-term observation and monitoring of key environmental elements; geological and geophysical studies of the mid-ocean ridge and national projects for science and technology planning and international cooperation; atmospheric, sea ice, marine and subsurface environmental surveys, biome and resource research, and pollutant monitoring; and integrated research into sea ice in ice packice. 
According to reports, this expedition will enhance China’s ability to protect the environment of the Arctic Ocean, which is sensitive to changes in the Arctic, provide an assessment of marine pollution, and help obtain key information necessary for relevant studies of mid-ocean ridge dynamics. 
Plains bison from Denmark: A Yamal park boasts new inhabitants 
Ingilor Nature Park has become home to 12 plains bison that were specially brought from Denmark. The animals travelled a distance of 8,000 kilometers from home. 
Acquired in a Danish animal nursery, the plains bison were transported to Yamal in road freight vehicles. The new Ingilor dwellers were lodged in the area around the Nyarovei-Khadata ranger station. After an one-month quarantine the animals will be released into enclosures. Park employees are keeping a close eye on the condition of these animals. 
They were brought to the Polar Urals by participants in the Pleistocene Park environmental project from Yakutia. Last May, the leaders of this organization approached the Department of Natural Resources and Environment of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area with a proposal for the following exchange: Ingilor Nature Park would send 14 musk buffalo to Yakutia while the Pleistocene Park was to buy four male and eight female plains bison for Yamal. The Pleistocene Park non-profit organization undertook to cover all expenses involved in this exchange. 
The proximity of the habitats of the plains bison and musk buffalo is expected to attract more tourists to this protected nature area in the Arctic and will also help bring to life the idea of creating an interactive site for people to get acquainted with and watch animals which lived in the late Pleistocene Epoch, a period when, along with plains bison and musk buffalo, the tundra-steppe was inhabited by mammoths, the woolly rhinoceros and other representatives of megafauna,” the Yamal Government website reports. 
The nature park occupies an area of over 900,000 hectares and is believed to be the world’s largest. Currently, over 100 muskoxen are living in the park. 
The Pleistocene Park is a research project. On the initiative of Yakut scientist Sergei Zimov, an experiment is being carried out in the Kolyma River valley to recreate mammoth steppes which were highly productive pastures as they could feed a large number of herbivorous animals. Specially for this purpose, the park is being colonized with fauna species which inhabited the Arctic earlier or can live in today’s northern climate. The initiators of the project believe that the revival of the late Pleistocene ecosystems will help slow down the ongoing processes related to climate change. 
State Duma committee supports second version of northern deliveries bill 
Members of the State Duma Committee on the Development of the Far East and Arctic supported for the second reading the core text of the northern freight deliveries bill that aims to create a comprehensive system for regulating and managing deliveries of goods to the Northern Territories of Russia . 
Members of the lower house of parliament also approved several amendments that adjust some of the bill’s clauses. 
First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Gadzhimagomed Guseinov who submitted the amendments noted that they had been drafted in line with the deputies’ proposals and proposals from state agencies in the territories covered by the northern deliveries program. 
We reviewed all submitted proposals in great detail. The committee for streamlining the northern deliveries system also discussed them. The discussion involved the heads of Arctic territories that submitted the most amendments, namely, the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) and the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. We have approved the resolutions on all the proposals,” Guseinov said. 
Vyacheslav Loginov, who chaired the committee meeting, thanked the regions for their active work on the bill. The final text clarifies the wording on standards and takes into account the opinions of experts and residents in the territories where the law will apply,” he added. 
On July 20, 2023, State Duma deputies are to review the bill in the second and third readings. 
Putin chairs a meeting on closed administrative territorial units and towns in Russia’s Arctic 
In Murmansk, President Vladimir Putin chaired a meeting on the development of closed administrative territorial units and towns in the Russian Arctic. He said that problems requiring solutions had accumulated in the Arctic. 
The president listed various problems, including the rundown utility infrastructure (up to 70 percent in large cities). He noted that this problem was even more acute in remote towns and closed administrative territorial units. 
I would like to remind you that during a meeting on the Arctic held last year we decided to draft an action plan for the development of housing, energy and social infrastructure in closed administrative territorial units and towns in Russia’s Arctic where our military units are deployed. However, this is taking too long,” he said. 
Officials have been slow to complete specific tasks at a time when the development of Arctic communities has military significance, the President pointed out. 
I will not go into detail here, but we have many defense and security interests in these areas. Therefore, local residents must live in good conditions, which is something we must focus our attention on,” he said. 
Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis, who also attended the meeting with the president, noted that about 283.5 billion rubles were needed to facilitate the comprehensive development of housing and the relevant infrastructure for the families of service personnel, and that this project would take 10 years to complete. 
It is necessary to adopt a systemic decision on the comprehensive development of housing and infrastructure for our service personnel and their families. We need to build 134 apartment buildings and 37 social and utility infrastructure facilities to accommodate service members and their families. The statistics have been coordinated with military authorities in advance, and about 135 billion rubles are needed for these purposes,” the governor said. 
He drew attention to the need for developing strategic military towns serving as Arctic strongpoints. This calls for attracting and retaining skilled specialists and for investing in the municipal infrastructure. 
As an example, Andrei Chibis mentioned the experience of the Far East, where large-scale changes are underway in accordance with approved master plans. 
Vladimir Putin instructed the concerned officials to coordinate the plan for the development of Arctic towns where military units are deployed by September 1, to approve comprehensive long-term plans for the development of Arctic cities next year and to start implementing them in 2025. 
Putin launches Arctic LNG-2’s first line along Northern Sea Route 
President Vladimir Putin officially launched the departure of a liquified gas production line along the Northern Sea Route. It will be towed to a field in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
After arriving in Murmansk, the Russian leader visited the Novatek‒Murmansk LNG Construction Center, where he examined the construction of the second LNG production line. It is being built for the Arctic LNG-2 project, which Novatek plans to launch in late 2023 or early 2024. Arctic LNG-2 is the company’s second large-capacity liquefied natural gas project after Yamal LNG. Under the project, there are plans to build three production lines with a capacity of 6.6 million tons each (or 19.8 million tons of LNG per year in total). 
The construction of the lines takes place on gravity-based structures the size of a multi-story building, which are the largest floating structures in the world today. Domestic cranes in workshops can lift 300 tons of freight. 
The LNG Construction Center has no analogues in the world. There, global-level technologies for the production of LNG are localized in Russia. The manufacturing of production lines involves hundreds of Russian enterprises and employs over 80,000 across Russia, including over 17,000 jobs in the Murmansk Region. 
The finished LNG production line will be towed along the Northern Sea Route to the Utrenneye field on the Gydan Peninsula in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, where a gas pipeline will be connected to it. The President took part in the launch ceremony. 
We have looked over the plant for the production of LNG facilities built here, near Murmansk. If such projects are implemented, then, indeed, the capacities will at least double. LNG production projects are certainly very important because they produce a multiplier effect on the entire economy,” Vladimir Putin said in his opening remarks. 
According to the President, such projects allow Russia to win the share it needs on the global LNG market. The Russian leader stressed that the first project was operating successfully. The new project will provide much more traffic on the Northern Sea Route, which, Putin believes, will produce a multiplier effect for an entire range of industries. The investments must be used for the prosperity of the country’s economy, the president believes. 
President supports launching preferential mortgage program for young families in the Arctic 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin has agreed to the proposal to launch a program of mortgages at a preferential rate of two percent for young families in the Arctic regions, similar to the mechanism already in use in the Russian Far East. 
"The minister [for the development of the Far East and the Arctic] spoke today about the Arctic mortgage. I think that such a measure could seriously support citizens living in the Arctic zone. We have seen the results of the preferential mortgage at two percent in the Far East, and it has really played an important role," the President said. 
The head of state explained that 73,000 Russian families have improved their living conditions thanks to this program. 
"I agree with extending it to young families living in the Arctic. That is, for them the preferential mortgage rate will not exceed two percent either," Putin added. 
He proposed to set the term of this measure until 2030. 
Russia’s first components for nuclear icebreakers produced in Moscow 
A plant in Moscow has created and started manufacturing components for the nuclear reactor safety systems of nuclear-powered icebreakers as part of the import substitution drive. 
A plant in Moscow has become the first facility in Russia to create and manufacture components for the nuclear reactor safety systems of nuclear-powered icebreakers. Before that, we imported them from Europe,” Moscow Mayor Sergei Sobyanin said. 
He pointed out that the component has been created within a matter of only four months. By the end of the year, the plant will supply this component to all the icebreakers under construction in Russia. 
The mayor added that icebreakers were being used on the Northern Sea Route and for the development of natural resources in the Arctic. 
The city is supporting this plant, which has the status of industrial complex and hence enjoys tax benefits. The plant will be able to invest the savings in its own development,” Sobyanin concluded. 
Clothing to protect Arctic firefighters from fire and cold simultaneously created in Russia 
Test samples of clothing for firefighters and rescuers working in the Arctic have been designed by St. Petersburg specialists. The fabrics have composite materials applied to them, and heating elements based on carbon nanotubes are added inside, which makes it possible to protect a person both from fire and hypothermia. At the same time, clothing cannot catch fire even at temperatures above 450° C. 
When tested in a fire simulator with a temperature of more than 450° C, the outer protective layer of the experimental sample did not catch fire and retained its integrity throughout the test. There were only superficial traces of thermal exposure such as darkening in spots. The results obtained showed the prospects of using these materials and a thermal protection system based on carbon nanostructures,” said Olga Zybina, Deputy Head for Research of the St. Petersburg State Fire Service under the Emergencies Ministry of the Russian Federation. 
Specialists note that extinguishing fire in severe cold weather takes about one and a half times longer than under normal conditions. At the same time, firefighters and rescuers are at risk of hypothermia and frostbite, and emergency situations often break out far away from medical facilities. 
Scientists at the Chemical Technology Department at our university have many years of experience with special methods of finishing and coloring fire-resistant fabrics. In order to improve the refractory properties of firefighters’ overalls, the fabric was treated with a specially developed mix of modified composites based on carbon nanostructures. Heating modules from a conductive fabric created with graphene nanotubes were integrated into the inside of the clothing to reduce the risk of hypothermia when working at low temperatures,” said Yelena Sashina, head of the Chemical Technology Department at St. Petersburg State University of Industrial Technologies and Design. 
In the near future, the designers hope to establish mass production of such clothing. In addition, they believe these materials can be used for purposes other than special-purpose clothing, too. Non-combustible heating fabrics can be used in the space and aircraft industry and even for upholstery of seats in public transit. 
The protective clothing was designed by the ArcticTex startup of the Northwestern Nanocenter, St. Petersburg State University of Industrial Technologies and Design, and St. Petersburg University of State Fire Service under the Emergencies Ministry. Both universities asked their students to work on this. The products were tested as part of the Safe Arctic 2023 interdepartmental research exercise. 
Carving reindeer petroglyphs on a sidewalk edging in central Petrozavodsk 
Sculptor Sergei Gapanovich has carved petroglyphs on a sidewalk edging in Petrozavodsk. The first rock painting” appeared on Lenin Prospekt, near the main building of Petrozavodsk State University. 
The reindeer petroglyphs that I have just carved closely resemble the White Sea coast petroglyphs but are not an exact replica of them. I changed their layout a bit,” Gapanovich told an Arctic.ru correspondent. 
He noted that he now wanted to carve drawings in five other locations along Lenin Prospekt, and that the municipal administration had approved all of them. 
Bad local weather remains the only problem. I will be able to resume work as soon as the sun shows up,” the sculptor added. 
Gapanovich is now planning to visit Ufa and carve similar drawings there, after local authorities approve his plans. 
Petroglyphs are interesting because they are unobtrusive in the city, they do not distract people, nor do they create any noise. At the same time, visitors will be able to find them quickly. Then later, they will want to go to see the real [Karelian] petroglyphs,” the sculptor explained. 
State Duma deputies pass basic northern deliveries bill 
State Duma deputies approved the basic northern freight deliveries bill at the second and third readings. The document aims to create a legal and organizational framework for northern freight deliveries and to amend some other laws accordingly. 
The government submitted the bill to the State Duma this past February. The document defines northern freight deliveries as a combination of measures and financial mechanisms for ensuring regular and uninterrupted deliveries to Extreme North territories and to other areas having the same status and limited delivery times. The government drafted the bill, as instructed by President Vladimir Putin. 
The bill stipulates such concepts as territories eligible for northern freight deliveries and territories with limited delivery times. The government will approve a list of these territories in accordance with proposals by top regional officials. 
The bill clearly delimits the prerogatives of federal, regional and municipal authorities in this sphere. It states expressly that the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic shall act as the joint federal northern delivery coordinator. The document also introduces the concept of a unified merchant marine northern delivery operator. The government shall select a legal entity to facilitate regular northern freight deliveries between seaports for a period of 15 years. The government shall also set the launch date of the above-mentioned operator’s work no later than January 1, 2026. 
Additionally, the bill aims to establish a federal state information system for monitoring northern deliveries. According to its authors, the system will process and analyze data on northern deliveries, monitor freight traffic routes and expose possible delivery delays on time. The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic or any other organization subordinate to it could operate the new information system. 
First stage of studying lakes in Purovsky District of Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area completed 
Specialists from Northern Trans-Ural State Agricultural University have completed a two-week project to study the current state of water bodies in the Purovsky District. They assessed the state of the Senmuto, Voyento and Khylslamato lakes and the Shonyauyakha River, as well as their fish-breeding potential. 
The researchers’ key task was to obtain updates on the current status of local fish populations and the structure of natural schools of water organisms, their specifications, the state of hydro-chemical parameters, and the nutritive base of fish schools in the water bodies surveyed by the experts. 
Biologists collected ichthyologic material for evaluating the spread of aquatic biological resources and their migration patterns. They also took 20 water and bottom sediment samples for studying their hydro-chemical properties and the distinguishing features of water bodies’ ichthyologic fauna. 
We collected full-scale primary material and delivered it to Tyumen for subsequent research. The material will be processed at laboratories of the Agro-Biotechnology Center, part of Agricultural University’s Institute of Fundamental and Applied Agrarian Biotechnologies,” Natalia Smolina, Ph. D. (Biology), who works for Northern Trans-Ural State Agricultural University, said. 
In late summer, the scientists will organize another expedition, using the new data for compiling recommendations for cost-effective management of aquatic biological resources. 
Research results have major significance for developing the fisheries sector in the Purovsky District; this primarily concerns small indigenous Northern ethnic groups. This sector plays an important role in their traditional economy. 
The research projects are being conducted under the sponsorship of the Government of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area and the Russian Center for Arctic Development. 
New Eskimo language textbooks to appear in Chukotka 
Schools in the villages of Novoye Chaplino and Sireniki in Chukotka will receive new Eskimo language textbooks: a total of 50 textbooks for the 4th grade. 
The unique textbooks will help preserve the culture of the indigenous peoples and pass it on to the next generations. It should be noted that in previous years Chukotka updated textbooks on the Chukchi and Even languages. 
"Our immediate plans are to form author teams in the region and compile programs for three languages: Chukchi, Even and Eskimo. These programs will be used to write and publish new textbooks for all students – from preschoolers to university students. This is a federal-level program, and Chukotka will participate in it because we have a pool of unique specialists," reported the local department of education and science. 
All systematic and scheduled work on updating educational and methodological materials is carried out by the department of education and science with support from the local government. This year alone, 16.5 million rubles were allocated for these purposes. This fully covers the needs of municipalities for new textbooks. 
Federation Council approves the Law on Northern Supply Haul 
The Federation Council reviewed and approved the Law on the Northern Supply Haul drafted by the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic on the President’s instructions. The document has fixed the notions of Northern delivery territory” and territories with limited delivery time frame.” It prioritizes shipping services and divides it into categories. The ministry will act as the single federal coordinator of the Northern Supply Haul. 
The draft law provides for a clear distribution of authority between federal, regional and municipal bodies. It has introduced the notion of a single sea operator for the Northern Supply Haul” to be represented by a Government-chosen legal entity that can ensure regular cargo shipment between seaports in the North. Its authority has a term of 15 years. The Government of the Russian Federation will determine the start of this operation, but no later than January 1, 2026. 
The Federal Law on the Northern Supply Haul was unanimously adopted by the State Duma and supported by the Federation Council. Now it has been submitted to the President for signature. One of the main responsibilities is the coordination of cargo traffic on the route. We simply need to ensure that everything sent to the Northern territories arrives on time. There are to be no delays due to ice or other carrier issues. This approach to cargo coordination will help reduce the costs of sending supplies to the Northern areas. We will pay less for delivering building materials, equipment and food. Shipping costs for the local people will decrease and, then, hopefully, their living standards will go up,” said Deputy Prime Minister and Plenipotentiary Presidential Representative in the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev. 
The adoption of the draft law will make it possible to reduce the price of life support items, initially by 15 percent, and will simultaneously enhance the reliability and transparency of shipping. 
People in the North are waiting for this new law. This law is aimed at reducing costs for shipping in the North and will centralize the system of essential items – from purchase to delivery to storage. For us, Northern shipping is not just a solution to transport and logistics issues. The quality of life of our people and the wellbeing of their families depend on each kilogram of delivered goods. The main goal of the law is to ensure that Northern shipping is reliable, fast and, most importantly, less expensive,” said Gadzhimagomed Guseinov, First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
The law regulating cargo shipping to the Far North will make this process quick and failsafe. Now over 3 million people receive life support items via Northern delivery in 25 regions of the country. The draft of the law was adopted by the State Duma in three readings and approved by the respective committees in the Federation Council. 
Permafrost experts to meet in Salekhard in late August 
A national scientific and practical conference, Permafrost Soils in the Anthropocene, will take place in Salekhard on August 20-26. It will be attended by over 150 scientists, students and postgraduates of Russia’s leading education and research institutions. 
The participants will take part in an intensive scientific and education programme that includes a series of discussions. Experts will review results of studying permafrost soils in the polar areas. They will focus on the processes and phenomena that may have an adverse effect on the operation of utilities and communications infrastructure. 
The participants will go on a special two-day excursion. They will visit the eastern foothills of the Polar Urals, valleys of the Ob River floodplain and agricultural areas of Salekhard. This format of the event will allow them to get a full picture of the land cover in the landscape monitoring regions. 
The conference is organised with the participation of the regional government, the Arctic Research Center, the Russian Arctic Exploration Center, the RAS Institute of Physicochemical and Biological Problems of Soil Science and St. Petersburg State University. 
Permafrost studies are particularly important on Yamal. The region has a geotechnical soil monitoring system in the urban and natural environment. Yamal scientists have equipped 40 field wells. Fuel-and-energy companies are also taking part in this work. The regional network has over 600 observation points. 
In August 2021, scientists created Russia’s first laboratory of Earth cryology and geotechnical safety. Large-scale research makes it possible to prevent permafrost degradation and draft new building solutions for the Russian Arctic. This work promotes the implementation of the Science and Universities national project. 
Northern Fleet rescuers conduct exercise to rescue ships in the Arctic 
The Northern Fleet conducted a search and rescue exercise in the Arctic, where, according to the scenario, a ship crashed and sank, and its crew members ended up in the water. The search and rescue center analyzed the information and made a decision to search for and provide assistance to the ship in distress, taking into account the difficult climatic conditions of the Arctic – heavy fog, which at times limited visibility to less than 200 m. 
According to the preliminary results of the exercise, the Northern Fleet has all the necessary forces and means, and most importantly, the professionalism and experience in order to provide assistance to those in distress, including along the Northern Sea Route,” said Captain 1st Rank Mikhail Belov, head of the search and rescue department of the Northern Fleet. 
The exercise involved the crews of the crane ship KIL-143, the rescue tugboat SB-523 and the sea rescue tugboat Murmanryba of the Northern Expeditionary Detachment of the Federal Agency for Fishery’s emergency rescue service. 
A Ka-27 search and rescue helicopter from the search and rescue duty forces was the first to arrive at the scene of the simulated accident. It carried out a radio-technical and visual search for the crash site and gave the exact coordinates to the search and rescue forces of the fleet. After the discovery of people in the water, a rescue paratrooper group aboard the Ka-27 helicopter lifted the victims from the sea surface using the LPG-300 airborne winch. 
During the exercise, the search and rescue forces practiced joint actions to lift those in distress from the surface of the sea, deliver them to rescue ships and provide them with the necessary medical assistance. 
Experts from the new Unity Park center to examine northern residents' quality of life 
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin signed a resolution establishing an innovative science and technology center, Unity Park, in the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area. 
According to the resolution, the center's scientific and technological activities will focus on the development of energy security technologies, health protection and improving the quality of life, advanced engineering technologies and new materials adapted to the conditions of the North and the Arctic. First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov will oversee this work. 
"The establishment of Unity Park in the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area is an important step in the region’s development. The center will help to develop advanced technologies in energy security, medicine and engineering, as well as to attract investment and commercialize unique scientific developments. The center will open up new opportunities for regional economic growth and strengthening the scientific and technological potential of the area. And there are already a number of companies that would like to become the center's residents," said Deputy Minister of Economic Development Maxim Kolesnikov. 
The document also establishes the rules for legal entities to apply for participant status in the project to create the center, the procedure for carrying out scientific and technological activities, as well as the specifics of performing certain types of activities at the center. 
Over 200,000 people participate in the Ticket to the Arctic competition 
Over 200,000 people have signed up for the Ticket to the Arctic multi-format competition for students. Ten authors of the most up-to-date and interesting development projects will be rewarded with the main prize – a trip to the Kola Peninsula as members of a scientific expedition. More than 400 participants have already contributed their ideas. 
Over 110,000 participants have found on the map at least one of the 33 objects personifying the Russian Arctic, including the Chelyuskin steamship, a nuclear-powered icebreaker, the Pasvik nature reserve, the Kola super-deep well, and the Novaya Zemlya archipelago. Each find hides some interesting facts about that particular forbidding location and the people who made a huge contribution to its exploration. Nearly 68,000 participants have found all of the hidden artifacts. 
The contest’s next stage being held online testing via an app, with 7,000 participants already putting their knowledge to the test and 4,000 of them passing brilliantly by scoring 9 out of 10 possible points. At the same time, 415 top rankers have submitted their project bids designed to explore and develop the Arctic, thereby taking part in the second stage of the competition. 
Exploring the Arctic is Russia’s strategic priority, given the huge development potential of its Arctic regions. This explains the large number of studies and R&D for the Arctic,” said Yevgenia Aleksandrova, lecturer from the Natural Sciences Department at Murmansk Arctic University, head of the Eco-Arctic student association and expert with the Ticket to the Arctic competition. 
To win a trip to the Arctic, applicants have to complete online testing by the Ticket to the Arctic mini-app before August 21, 2023, with no less than 9 correct answers, and fill a project bid sharing their ideas on how to develop and explore the Arctic. Thirty best projects will be analyzed by a jury, and 10 winners, after publicly defending their proposals, will leave on a scientific expedition to the Kola Peninsula. 
Russia’s northern deliveries law to take effect in 2024 
A law on northern deliveries will come into effect in Russia on April 1, 2024. The document signed by the President will regulate the main aspects of delivering freight to the Russian Far North and equal-status territories. 
Adopted by the State Duma on July 20 and approved by the Federation Council on July 28, the document was drafted at the President’s instruction and introduces the primary concept of northern deliveries and freight categories, and determines the responsibilities of governing bodies. The law frames state regulation of prices of certain types of goods, markups and service rates. 
The law prescribes creating a federal coordinator and an integrated marine operator of northern deliveries, with their duties also described in the law. Budget expenses on maintaining a backbone network of transport and logistics infrastructure for northern deliveries, owned by federal or regional authorities or municipalities, are also regulated by the law. 
Rosatom is building a federal system for monitoring and official statistics related to northern deliveries. The Government is currently working on respective bylaws. 
Arctic and Antarctic Museum to host polar dog festival 
On August 12, the St. Petersburg’s Museum of the Arctic and Antarctic will host a festival dedicated to polar dogs – our four-legged explorers that have been an essential part of expeditions to the poles. Those who visit the festival, which was named Something About Dogs, will meet these loyal companions of polar explorers and learn about working with dogs during expeditions. 
Speakers will talk about breeds that make the best sled dogs, as well as required equipment, training techniques, and ways to provide comfortable conditions for dogs during polar expeditions, and they will tell engaging dog-related polar life stories. 
A staff member from the Geographica ethnographic park will speak about the Alaskan Malamute breed and today’s dog sledding expeditions. Visitors will have the opportunity to create their own version of the best dog at the Our Loyal Friends workshop to be held by the museum partners, staff members from Pushkin Specialized Central Children’s Library. 
Maria Fyodorova, medalist and winner of sled dog racing events, including world and European championships, will talk about different breeds of sled dogs, demonstrate riding equipment, and talk about Siberian Huskies. 
Polar explorer Viktor Boyarsky will speak on the unique Transantarctic expedition, with most of it carried out on dog sleds. The expedition and its participants are included in Guinness World Records. 
The festival visitors will also meet some quadruped explorers that have taken part in conquering the two poles. 
Replacement crew arrives at North Pole station after 10 months 
A new crew of polar explorers bearing scientific research equipment and food supplies has reached the North Pole-41 polar station, which has been drifting in high latitudes for more than 10 months. The Akademik Tryoshnikov research vessel delivered the personnel and goods, docking at the station at 83.35° N 50.4° E in the Arctic Ocean. 
It took less than four days for the ship to travel from Murmansk to the drifting station. The best course for the ship to reach the ice-resistant platform was plotted with the help of aerial reconnaissance from a Ka-32 helicopter. Moving across the ice fields at an average speed of 6-8 knots, the Akademik Tryoshnikov approached the North Pole platform and closely moored to it on the port side, allowing expedition staff and cargo to be delivered to the camp easily and safely. 
As the two vessels will be drifting together, they plan to examine the drifting mesoscale buoys and install additional drifting equipment north of the site. Data from drifting buoys are used to adjust forecasts of ice conditions on the Northern Sea Route. 
It is the height of summer in the Arctic, and gradual destruction of the ice and reduction of the ice area are observed in the vicinity of the drifting station,” Alexander Makarov, Director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, said. The underside of the ice floe that the station is moored to is melting, and there are noticeable thaw holes and snow puddles of up to 40 cm deep. The ice condition does not allow for safe research on the ice, so the equipment was taken aboard the vessel and scientific work is carried out from the ice-resistant platform. At the same time, satellite monitoring has shown several extensive ice fields not far from the station. If helicopter reconnaissance confirms these reports, and our specialists choose a more stable ice floe for the camp, we will try to re-moor the ice-resistant platform to a new floe. This will significantly increase the station’s drift time and enable it to collect additional materials on the changing climate of the Arctic region,” he added. 
The joint work is expected to take 10 days; after that, the Akademik Tryoshnikov will return to Murmansk. The polar expeditions are organized by the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute. 
Roszapovedtsentr to design tourist routes in the Arctic’s protected areas 
The Information and Analytical Center for Nature Reserve Protection (Roszapovedtsentr) has started designing combined tourist routes for specially protected natural areas in the Arctic. 
These routes will contribute to greater mobility and enable tourists to visit more sites via aircraft and ships. The work to develop the routes is in progress, with updates added on pick-up and drop-off points. 
Expanding transport logistics will ease access to the territories for all population groups. Small aircraft will make it possible to show more unique locations in the specially protected natural areas, while ensuring the safety of routine operations and visits by groups of tourists,” said Deputy Head of Roszapovedtsentr Lyudmila Poplavskaya, as quoted by the press service of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. 
According to Roszapovedtsentr data, Russia’s Arctic zone includes 14 nature reserves, 10 national parks and 8 wildlife sanctuaries. Last year’s most visited protected areas (about 30,000 visitors in total) were Onezhskoye Pomorye National Park in the Arkhangelsk Region, the Kostomuksha Nature Reserve and Kalevalsky National Park in Karelia. 
Clean Arctic-Vostok-77 expedition leaves Murmansk 
The Clean Arctic-Vostok-77 research expedition has set off from the Murmansk seaport. Over the next 12 months, scientists from 20 institutes of the Russian Academy of Sciences and several universities will travel over 12,000 km traversing little-explored northern regions and performing research commissioned by the state. 
The President sent a message of greeting to those participating inparticipants of the launch of this multifield continental Arctic expedition. 
The scale of this unique project under the auspices of the Russian Academy of Sciences is truly impressive: in challenging climate conditions, the participants will carry out more than 200 fundamental research projects focused on geography, economics and social sciences. The entire scope of the research is extremely important for the development of the Arctic and strengthening its natural and industrial potential. The itinerary of the expedition covers 12,000 km and runs through 19 Russian regions, offering an extensive and busy program. <...> Thank you for your proactive attitude and ambition to contribute to preserving the rich natural environment of our country and to the dynamic development of the Arctic,” Vladimir Putin said in his message. 
The expedition program includes ecological, sociological and anthropological research concerning indigenous peoples and residents of Russia’s northern communities. More than 700 participants will take part in Tthe year-long mission, will include more than 700 participants who will carrying out about 200 studies across 11 time zones. 
The Klavdiya Yelanskaya ship will deliver the first group of researchers to the southeastern coast of the Kola Peninsula, where their land journey will begin. The group will traverse a length of 120 km across the tundra and Tersky Coast bays on foot. In the village of Umba, athe second group of sociologists and anthropologists will take over and begin collecting data for their study in places populated by the Saami. The employees of the Moscow Arctic Library No. 77 will start searching for audio and video content and books in the languages of the indigenous peoples – the Saami and the Izhma Komi. Their itinerary will run through Revda, Lovozero and Apatity. 
Arctic Floating University crew back in Arkhangelsk after the longest expedition across the Arctic Ocean 
The Mikhail Somov research vessel has returned to the Port of Arkhangelsk after a 44-day mission in the Arctic Ocean. During the expedition, scientists and students carried out research on Franz Josef Land, Russia’s northernmost archipelago, as well as on Novaya Zemlya, the islands in the Kara Sea, in the Yenisei Gulf, the Yamal coast and the Yugorsky Shar Strait. The team included 17 participants from ten universities and research companies in Arkhangelsk, Moscow, St. Petersburg, Perm and Syktyvkar, the press service of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education reports. 
The expedition definitely was a success, the longest voyage of the 17 expeditions conducted since the Arctic Floating University project was launched in 2012,” Yelena Kudryashova, Rector of the Northern (Arctic) Federal University said. 
According to, Lyudmila Drachkova, head of the Arctic Floating University expedition team, the researchers spent 15 days working in the vicinity of Franz Josef Land, above 80 degrees north latitude, which was also a record. 
They made a total of 11 land expeditions, including at Cape Zhelaniya on Severny Island of Novaya Zemlya, four islands of Franz Josef Land, and Oleny and Vilkitsky islands in the Kara Sea. The researchers were flown to the shore by helicopter. The northernmost point they reached was Hayes Island at 80 degrees 34 minutes and 50 seconds north latitude,” Lyudmila Drachkova added. 
The Franz Josef Land Archipelago in the Arctic Ocean is difficult to access; many of its islands remain almost unvisited. The results obtained during the Arctic Floating University expedition are of great scientific value primarily for geology, microbiology, biology, and soil science. They were the first to do research in some locations in Franz Josef Land, and they obtained unique samples. 
Artemy Goncharov, head of the Laboratory of Functional Genomics and Proteomics in Microorganisms at the Institute of Experimental Medicine, assembled an extensive collection of biomaterial from birds, animals and marine mammals. 
These samples will be used to search for microorganisms that are resistant to antibiotics. We already know that the problem of antibiotic resistance has reached Arctic ecosystems, even Wilczek Island on Franz Josef Land, where people visit very rarely,” the scientist shared the first results. 
Another part of his research focused on pathogenic bacteria that can enter the Arctic via migratory birds. During the foray to Cape Sopochnaya Karga in Taimyr, they obtained samples of ancient permafrost from the period when mammoths and other Pleistocene animals walked the Arctic. They will be analyzed in a laboratory in St. Petersburg. Russia is creating a state system for permafrost monitoring; assessing microorganisms contained in permafrost is an important part of this monitoring. 
Anton Shmanyak, a leading geologist at the Karpinsky All-Russian Geological Research Institute, collected rock samples from Wilczek Land, Wilczek Island and the Komsomolskiye Islands; the samples will be dated for a better understanding of these places’ geological history. 
These rocks are very valuable because these complexes have never been studied; no one has been here. An analysis of the samples obtained during the voyage will help determine a more precise age of the rocks on the Arctic Ocean coast and islands, their tectonic, stratigraphic and geochemical characteristics and make the geological map of the Russian Federation more accurate,” the researcher said. 
Yury Bobrov, Head of the Department of Environment and Geology at Pitirim Sorokin Syktyvkar State University, found several new plant species on the islands of Franz Josef Land that had not been seen here earlier. On Wilczek Island, it was a variety of saxifrage. On the Komsomolskiye Islands – Arctic poppies, two varieties of saxifrage, scurvy-grass, mouse-ears, buttercups, a variety of whitlow-grass, meadow-grass and foxtail grass. 
Transport Ministry releases Northern Sea Route Development project specifications 
The Russian Ministry of Transport has published the data sheet specifications for the Northern Sea Route federal development project. 
According to the project description, the total capacity of the sea terminals along the Northern Sea Route will be expanded from 32 mln to 83 mln tons per year, and cargo shipments are expected to reach 80 mln tons per year by 2025. The plan also includes photographing the sea bottom relief in the waters of the Northern Sea Route and in limiting sections (with controlling depths) of Yenisei Bay, the Yenisei and Kolyma rivers; and charting the deep-water routes along the entire route for ships with a draught of 15 meters. 
There are plans to modernize the Petr Kotsov research vessel in 2023 and the Alexey Maryshev research vessel in 2024. Additionally, an Arc7 class lead research vessel is expected to be launched next year. 
A digital ecosystem for the Northern Sea Route will be developed, with an integrated platform of digital services provided in the waters of the Northern Sea Route. 
The development project also includes construction of an icebreaker fleet. The third universal nuclear icebreaker under Project 22220 will be launched in 2024, followed by a fourth vessel in 2026. The lead ship of Project 10510 (the Lider) will be launched in 2027, followed by a fifth nuclear icebreaker of Project 22220 in 2028 and the sixth in 2030. The lead multi-purpose maintenance vessel under Project 22770 will be launched in 2029. The ship will be responsible for the entire scope of maintenance services, including recharging onboard nuclear reactors and floating nuclear power units. 
Year-round navigation along the Northern Sea Route will begin by 2025. 
Researchers find bones of ancient saiga antelope near Taimyr 
For the first time, Russian scientists have found fossilized remains of the saiga antelope that date back 20,000 years, to the recent ice age, on Khara-Tumus Peninsula in the Khatanga Gulf. Researchers from the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute (AARI) and their colleagues from the Russian Geological Research Institute took part in the excavations. 
For the first time, fossilized remains of the saiga antelope that lived there some 20,000 years ago during the previous ice age were found near the coast of the Taimyr Peninsula,” the AARI press service said. 
According to the scientists, this finding raises a riddle for the research community: how was this fastest of antelopes, which now inhabits steppes and semideserts, able to survive in the severe conditions of the mammoth steppe? Moreover, the saigas didn’t just survive, they also migrated to Eurasia’s southern regions during a warming period, while mammoths and many other ice age animals went extinct. 
Scientists discover alga that can help monitor Arctic 
A previously unknown species of diatoms was discovered by scientists in the Kara Sea as part of the Floating University program. The new species was named Fragilaria Shirshovii after one of the first explorers of the Arctic. 
Experts believe that monitoring the populations of these microalgae will improve the quality of environmental monitoring in the Arctic. 
Russian scientists have discovered and described a new species of microalgae that was named after one of the first explorers of the Arctic, academician Pyotr Shirshov. The diatom alga Fragilaria Shirshovii is a promising indicator for environmental monitoring and assessing human impact on the environment,” the Russian Science Foundation press service said. 
A group of researchers found the new species of algae while studying water samples from the location where the Ob flows into the Kara Sea, where fresh river water mixes with the saltwater in the Arctic Ocean. 
The activity and the appearance of the diatoms were examined with microscopes, and scientists also analyzed the DNA structure. The analysis indicated that the new species belongs to the genus Fragilaria, which exists in both freshwater and saltwater. 
As the researchers noted, the new alga is significantly different from other members of the genus, so it can be used as an additional tool for monitoring the state of the environment along with other diatoms that are sensitive to human impact on nature. 
St. Petersburg hosts Arctic Salon 
On August 25-27, the Arctic Salon took place near the Peter and Paul Cathedral in St. Petersburg. Visitors flocked to ten polar stations, five themed areas, and the Heat of the Arctic exhibition. 
The Salon’s organizers used the event to emphasize the city’s contribution to developing Russia’s northern territories. 
During the Salon, city residents learned more about the culture of the indigenous northern ethnic groups. One exhibit section featured narratives in the Inuit language, and visitors could buy good luck charms and medallions. They could also watch documentaries and feature films about the north. 
Young people had a great time at a facility for young researchers near the Naryshkin Battlement. They watched films and took part in games, quizzes and workshops, and they were invited to join an Arctic drawing contest. 
Those attending the plenary session, the Salon’s key event, discussed cooperation between Russia’s Arctic regions and St. Petersburg. 
Yakutian singer, stage-and-screen actress Valentina Romanova also performed on the final day, August 27. 
North Pole expedition changes ice floes for the first time 
During its first long-duration Arctic expedition, the North Pole self-propelled ice-resistant platform successfully changed ice floes for the first time and continued drifting with Arctic Ocean currents. 
This ice floe change has not been attempted before in the Arctic. The North Pole 41 expedition is now entering the final stage of its mission, which is scheduled to end in late 2023, Alexander Makarov, director of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute, told journalists at a briefing. 
Our forecast indicates that the final stage of the North Pole 41 expedition will end this year. In the past 11 months or so, the station has covered about 3,000 kilometers, drifting freely from the Novosibirsk Islands to the northwest for over 1,200 kilometers, but it has been actively heading to the east in the past 30 days. The expedition platform is currently located above the Franz Josef Land Archipelago at 83.5 degrees north latitude. According to our estimates, the station will reach ice-free waters in the next few months when the scientific expedition ship North Pole will set sail for Murmansk,” Makarov noted. 
Now is the warmest part of the year in the Arctic latitudes, he explained. The large ice floe that had been holding the North Pole station (which froze to it quickly) since October 2022 began to melt rapidly. We decided to continue the expedition by attaching the platform to another ice floe. A reconnaissance plane located the new ice floe, and the platform was attached to it. The platform froze to it quickly. 
Scientists are now setting up a new ice camp on the ice floe which measures 1,200 by 1,800 meters. Once completed, the camp will help in the study of global processes in the Arctic. The self-propelled ice-resistant platform reached the ice floe on its own, then docked with and froze to it sideways. 
The scientific research ship Akademik Tryoshnikov successfully rotated North Pole crews and delivered essential equipment and other freight for continuing the expedition. According to Makarov, 80 percent of the expedition’s researchers have been working in the Arctic for a continuous period of these last 11 months. 
The Arctic saw the hottest July on record in 2023 
July 2023 was the third hottest month ever recorded in the Arctic, said Roman Vilfand, Research Advisor at the Hydrometeorological Center of Russia. 
The south of the European part of the country saw a heatwave of +38-40 degrees Celsius, the researcher said. 
In the Arctic, July was the third hottest month on record. The main contribution to this record, however questionable, was made by the Arctic territories of Canada and Russia to the north of the Ural Mountains,” Vilfand said. 
June and July 2023 have been confirmed as the hottest months on record globally. 
The planet saw the hottest June and July ever; global temperatures were at a record high, the highest in the history of meteorological observation,” the researcher said. 
According to Roman Vilfand, Europe saw long heatwaves with record high temperatures this summer. At the same time, the temperatures in the European part of Russia in July were moderate, even slightly lower than usual. In the rest of the country, in the Urals, especially in the northern part, and Siberia, very high temperatures were recorded. 
Port of Vitino and LNG sea-based transshipment facility to open in the Murmansk Region before the end of the year 
The Port of Vitino, which is designed for oil product transloading, will be officially put into service before the end of 2023. The company, Arctic Transshipment, a priority development area (PDA) resident, also plans to complete a new offshore LNG transshipment facility in Ura Bay, Murmansk Region, this year. 
There are 214 residents in the Arctic Capital (Stolitsa Arktiki) PDA, in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation (AZRF). Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis mentioned this figure at a meeting on current issues. 
As of the first half of 2023, residents of the AZRF PDA have invested a total of 190 billion rubles in the implementation of these projects, which is half the planned investment. They have created almost 5,000 jobs. Twenty-four projects are fully operational. The total amount of investment in the region’s economy already exceeds 384 billion rubles. Over 11,500 jobs will be created eventually. This year, the plan includes completing the Atlantic Salmon Slaughter and Processing plant with a capacity of up to 165 tonnes of finished product per day. An offshore LNG transshipment facility will be opened in Ura Bay. We are also planning to establish a multifunction roadside service station in the village of Lovozero. This is a request from the local residents, said Governor Andrei Chibis. 
Murmansk Region Deputy Governor Olga Kuznetsova spoke in more detail about the implementation of projects by AZRF PDA residents and the preferential programs. 
The main goal of PDAs and the AZRF preferential projects is to facilitate the implementation of projects with government support provided as tax benefits and preferences. Thus, the federal budget compensates companies for 75 percent of their insurance expenses on employees that received newly created jobs in a particular project. As of June 2023, 22 PDA residents used this benefit. Total compensation during the entire implementation of these projects is about 205 million rubles,” Olga Kuznetsova emphasised. 
PDA related projects are mostly oriented toward the domestic market. Over half of AZRF PDA residents are carrying out projects to design, build and purchase equipment. 
Vladimir Putin notes the need for expanding the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Northern Sea Route’s capacities 
Vladimir Putin urged the concerned officials to expand the Trans-Siberian Railway and the Northern Sea Route’s capacities at a meeting on the development of the Krasnoyarsk Territory. 
The development of logistics and transport infrastructure is a separate issue. These projects include expanding the Trans-Siberian Railway, building up Northern Sea Route capacities, Arctic ports, air harbors, and building and repairing highways,” he said. 
All are of particular importance for the Krasnoyarsk Territory, and for Siberia, for the whole country; both for business and for citizens, for the most convenient transport links. Of course, we are talking a lot now – well, not now, but in recent years – on this topic and doing a lot. But we need to keep up the momentum.” 
It is important for us to form a more up-to-date and flexible economic structure for the region and Siberia as a whole, to create new, well-paying jobs along the entire production chain, to ensure the growth of people’s incomes and, therefore, the well-being of Russian families as well.” 
And this will certainly have a positive impact on the demographic sphere, on attracting skilled specialists who will live and work here.” 
Personnel is one of the basic, key issues for the Krasnoyarsk Territory and for many other regions in Russia,” he noted 
The sectors of the national economy, including manufacturing, agribusiness, tourism and services, are rapidly developing and gaining momentum, and they are in urgent need of an influx of professionals.” 
According to him, it is necessary to strengthen the education system specifically for the regional economy, and coordinate the efforts of colleges, universities, and industrial enterprises through regional education centers, research and production associations. 
Murmansk Arctic University students to take part in Polar projects 
Murmansk Arctic University (MAU) will emphasise specialties that are in demand for the implementation of current and future projects in the Arctic, by preparing students to work at Arctic enterprises. 
As for human resources, our colleges will focus more on educating professionals specifically for the projects that we are implementing today; the focus will be on the specialties needed in today’s projects. The same approach is envisaged for the program that was considered today at the supervisory board so that the university educates professionals who are in demand in the Russian Arctic zone,” Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis said in reviewing the university supervisory board meeting. 
The governor noted that this education program and these popular specialties give young people in the North opportunities for personal growth. 
At the same time, they will have a good income and an interesting job, because the projects that are currently being implemented in the Arctic, given the attention of Russian President Vladimir Putin and the Russian government, make it possible for them to discover their potential and leave a mark on history,” Chibis said. 
In December 2022, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Russian Federation approved a proposal to merge the two largest universities in the Arctic, Murmansk State Technical University and Murmansk Arctic State University, into a single Murmansk Arctic University. All university programs were maintained, and the teachers retained their positions. 
Two Yugra districts become part of Russia’s Arctic zone 
Russian President Vladimir Putin has approved the addition of the Beryozovsky and Beloyarsky districts in the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area, in Yugra, to officially become part of the Arctic zone. 
The President approved Yugra Governor Natalya Komarova’s proposal to include the Beryozovsky and Beloyarsky districts in the Arctic zone. <...> The Beryozovsky and Beloyarsky districts in Yugra have conditions that correspond to those specified in the strategy for the development of the Arctic zone, including their low population density and vast potential for the development of hydrocarbons and solid mineral resources, such as manganese, chromium, copper ore, zinc, lead, and quartz,” the regional Department of Domestic Policy reported. 
The Arctic zone strategy provides for developing local high-tech production facilities, working out and implementing a program for geological study of the Arctic zone, and developing new mineral deposits, as well as efforts to introduce special economic support to facilitate private investment in developing production facilities. 
The strategy also highlights requirements to upgrade healthcare facilities and social infrastructure, and to improve the availability of social services. 
Scientists in Yakutia to study the Earth’s magnetic north pole 
The Samoilovsky Island Research Station (RS) in the Lena River delta, which has been researching Yakutia permafrost for ten years, will begin studying the Earth’s magnetic north pole. 
The new area of focus will result in unique research into the magnetic north pole, which is currently moving towards Russia’s Arctic coast, according to the press service of the Institute of Petroleum Geology and Geophysics (IPGG) of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences (SB RAS). 
The institute has planned a number of measures to maintain and develop the station. Scientists believe that it is important to make better use of the station’s potential, given that it operates year-round, rather than conduct research during the summer months alone. Year-round measurements will be needed for the upcoming carbon test site and magnetic observatory. The latter will make it possible to conduct unique research into the magnetic north pole, which is currently shifting towards Russia’s Arctic coast. 
According to IPGG Deputy Director Dr. Anton Duchkov, the research station will also engage in applied research in such areas as renewable energy, materials science, and geotechnical monitoring under Arctic conditions. 
Repairs and new pavilions for a magnetic laboratory will be needed for this. In addition, the station will need new specialized equipment and transport vehicles. All of this will make it possible to expand the volume and subject matter of the research in the Lena River delta. The first few steps to implement the program have been made, with the IPGG receiving 55 million rubles in subsidies to buy fuel and lubricants for the station to sustain it during the next few months. Another subsidy of 5.5 million rubles has been provided by the Russian Federation Ministry of Science and Higher Education with an eye to replacing the station’s diesel generators. 
Murmansk Region and Nornickel sign 10 billion ruble social spending agreement 
The cooperation agreement for 2023–2025 was signed in Moscow by Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrei Chibis and President of Nornickel Vladimir Potanin. 
This socioeconomic agreement is the largest in the history of the Murmansk Region in terms of attracting private investment. Together with Norilsk Nickel, we will allocate more than 10 billion rubles for the implementation of more than 50 measures in Monchegorsk and the Pechenga District. At the same time, the Murmansk Region has significantly increased its share in funding: up to 3.78 billion rubles, or 40 percent of the total amount come from the consolidated budget of the region," Governor Andrei Chibis emphasized. 
For Norilsk Nickel, the Murmansk Region is one of the most important regions. We are not only continuing our cooperation, we are taking it to an entirely new level. The implementation of our investment program, as well as the launch of new projects, will undeniably result in the emergence of new social programs. They are aimed at improving the comfort of people, attracting young professionals to the region, and developing Arctic tourism. Active cooperation between big businesses and the regional government in these important spheres results in maximum efficiency, which means the best result for the people living in the region and our employees,” Vladimir Potanin commented. 
The bulk of these funds is to be invested in health care (23 percent), followed by education (19 percent), culture and social programs (17 percent), construction, outdoor improvements, housing and utility services and road repair (13 percent). 
Among other things, funding is planned for the construction of a new building for three departments at the Monchegorsk central district hospital, a new building for the infectious diseases department, and a clinic for the Nornickel Corporate Health Center. 
Expert council to determine criteria for backbone cities in the Arctic 
The list of backbone cities of Russia’s Arctic zone will be compiled by November 1, 2023. All of these cities will receive additional funding for infrastructure development, Murmansk Region Governor Andrei Chibis said during the first meeting of the expert council of the working group for the development of the Arctic under the Russian State Council. 
The working group for the development of the Arctic under the State Council has been working for less than a year. But it has already proposed several initiatives that received the support of President of Russia Vladimir Putin. Among them are the comprehensive modernization of closed cities and cities where military personnel and their families live, as well as the expansion of concessional mortgages at the interest rate of 2 percent in Russia’s Arctic zone and the Arctic backbone cities. At the previous meeting of the working group, we pointed out the need to develop a special approach and tools to develop strategically important communities in the Arctic zone, those that have a strategic value for the development of the entire Russian Arctic. At the meeting of the working group, we agreed to introduce the term backbone cities of the Arctic” to improve the state support measures designed to boost the social and economic development of Russian regions located in the Arctic zone. I want to thank Presidential Aide Maxim Oreshkin, Deputy Prime Minister Yury Trutnev and Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov for the support of our initiative,” Governor Andrei Chibis said in his opening remarks. 
He also said that this proposal was supported by President of Russia Vladimir Putin, who gave instructions to compile the list of backbone cities of the Arctic following his trip to the Murmansk Region this July. 
The expert council comprises experts and members of the research community, in particular, Alexander Pilyasov, Professor at the Geography Department of Lomonosov Moscow State University, general director of the Institute for Regional Consulting; Sergei Sivayev, Professor at the Higher School of Economics, key expert on the utilities sector development, as well as employees of the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and of the Center for Strategic Research. 
At the first meeting, the expert council members discussed approaches for developing criteria to determine a notion for being deemed as a backbone community” in the Arctic. 
The President said specifically that population size should not be the key factor in outlining criteria for backbone towns. It is a very important point because in Russia’s Arctic zone, there are over 1,000 communities, including 90 cities and towns. Most of them are small in terms of population but together they provide some 10 percent of the country’s GDP. The Russian Arctic is the country’s main resource base. Another key function of the Arctic communities is providing for the work of the Northern Sea Route, one of the global transit projects. In addition, some cities and towns in the Russian Arctic are the key centers safeguarding the entire country’s national security. Such cities as Murmansk and Arkhangelsk can undoubtedly be classified as backbone in terms of a number of important functions. Our task now is to outline the list of such key communities which have huge strategic importance for the development of the entire Arctic,” Andrei Chibis said. 
The results of the expert council’s work will be submitted for review to the working group under the State Council, and then to the office for the development of cities and other communities of the Russian Arctic zone under the Ministry for the Development of the Far East and Arctic, led by Alexei Chekunkov. 
300,000 people compete for the Ticket to the Arctic 
Over 300,000 people took part in the Ticket to the Arctic contest. The jury selected 30 finalists who will compete for the opportunity to go on a scientific expedition to the Arctic region. The finalists included students and researchers from the Moscow Aviation Institute, ITMO University, Moscow Architectural Institute, Russian State Hydrometeorological University, Novosibirsk Sate University, St. Petersburg Polytechnic University, St. Petersburg State University, Urals Federal University and others. 
The jury noted how difficult it was to choose the 30 best projects from the over 700 entries that were submitted to the contest. Participants will present their ideas in the final, which will be held in Moscow in late September. Based on the results of public presentations, 10 winners will be selected to go on a scientific expedition to the Arctic region. 
The projects proposed by the finalists concern developing hydrographic and digital maps of the Arctic, upgrading polar stations, creating special unmanned aerial vehicles for monitoring the environmental situation and underwater robots that filter microplastic particles, developing an application for tourists to identify local plant and animal species, and much more. 
This contest has shown that we have a contingent of young people who see their future in science and propose fundamental goal-setting projects. The implementation of such projects will not only contribute to promoting science, but will also contribute to the generation of new knowledge,” said Alexei Sobisevich, contest expert and Deputy Director for Research of the Schmidt Institute of Physics of the Earth at the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
The contest is being held by the Clean Arctic autonomous non-profit organizationas part of the Promoting Science and Technology federal project with grant support from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education of the Russian Federation. The entries were assessed by the contest experts – 12 scientists from the Russian Academy of Sciences, institutes and universities. The entries addressed seven priority areas for the study and development of the Arctic. The participants in the scientific expedition will visit nature reserves, operating production sites, key research centers and scientific and technological enterprises of partners. 
Chinese expedition reaches the North Pole 
China's scientific expedition across the Arctic Ocean aboard the Xue Long 2 icebreaker has reached the North Pole and begun conducting research, according to the Chinese Ministry of Natural Resources. 
Xue Long 2 is the first polar icebreaker built independently by China. 
The researchers have already conducted comprehensive studies of the atmosphere, hydrology, biology and sea ice, the ministry said in a press release. These measurements will help fill gaps in the country's knowledge of the region and allow scientists to better understand how sea ice and ocean currents are changing, as well as expand knowledge about the rapid environmental changes in the Arctic Ocean and their ecological responses. The ministry noted that the collected data is also important for Chinese specialists to combat the consequences of global climate change. 
The expedition departed Shanghai on July 12 and is expected to cover nearly 15,500 nautical miles (28,700 kilometers) before returning to Shanghai at the end of September. 
The project will focus on the central Pacific Arctic region and the Gakkel Ridge. 
The Chinese researchers will also work with their colleagues from Russia and Thailand. 
US administration cancels oil and gas leases in Alaska nature reserve 
The administration of US President Joe Biden has canceled the permits for the development of oil and gas in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR) in Alaska, which were issued in the final days of Donald Trump’s presidential term. 
As the climate crisis warms the Arctic more than twice as fast as the rest of the world, we have a responsibility to protect this treasured region for all ages,” Biden said in a statement. 
It was also suggested banning new leasing of oil and gas development in an area of 10.6 million acres, which is over 40 percent of the 23 million acres that were allocated earlier for the National Petroleum Reserve in Alaska. 
The announced initiatives also cover the northern part of Alaska, which not only has oil and gas resources, but also serves as the habitat for many species of animals such as polar bears, reindeer, water birds, and others. Environmentalists have repeatedly said that drilling in the nature reserve will harm the unique Arctic ecosystem. 
Representatives of the energy sector and government of Alaska supported opening the region for oil and gas production believing that it would create jobs and give a boost to the economy of the state, which to a large extent depends on the oil industry. 
Earlier this year, the Biden administration approved a major project Willow by ConocoPhillips to develop oil in Alaska, which angered some Democrats and environmental activists. The new proposals of the US Department of the Interior do not concern Willow. 
Cargo shipping on the Northern Sea Route increased to 23 million tons in eight months 
Cargo shipping along the Northern Sea Route (NSR) increased by 1.5 percent to 23 million tons over eight months, and transit cargo is also returning to the route, said Vladimir Panov, Rosatom's special representative for Arctic development, during ‘The World Transport Northern Route’ session at the Eastern Economic Forum. 
Panov said that this year the Northern Sea Route continues to be developed, and increases in shipping volumes are already up over last year. 
Importantly, transit shipments, which disappeared last year due to the imposition of the sanctions, have returned to the NSR. 
"In a few weeks of summer and fall navigation, we have already transported more than 1 million tons of transit cargo across the Arctic Ocean. Cargo from the Baltic Sea to Asia has been shipped via the NSR. It is likely that transit cargo volumes on the NSR will return to historical highs this year," Panov said. 
He recalled that the Northern Sea Route has a largeniche of goods, which today go to Russia and Europe by road and rail. Of 22 categories of goods, 15 can be transported year-round, including cars, machinery, consumer goods, furniture and electronics. Specific categories like medicines, cosmetics, oils and engine additives, and some food products are subject to temperature restrictions. 
"During this navigation season, we are bringing Russian products from ports in the northwest through the Northern Sea Route, including oil and gas. However, soon, containerized cargo will also be shipped this way. We are working on an international container line along the NSR. Now there is substantive work on the range of cargo possible for transport in terms of storage temperatures and temperature minimums in the Arctic," added Panov. 
As reported, cargo shipping along the Northern Sea Route totaled some 34 million tons in 2022. According to plans outlined by the President of the Russian Federation, in 2024 Northern Sea Route shipping volumes should reach 80 million tons. 
Vladimir Putin: LNG production in the Arctic must reach 64 mln tons per year by 2030 
LNG production in the Russian Arctic must be increased to 64 million tons per year by 2030, President Vladimir Putin noted while speaking at the plenary session of the 8th Eastern Economic Forum. 
In this regard, a principled decision was made to build new LNG lines at the Murmansk center to operate at Arctic deposits. Naturally, this will make a great contribution to the development of our northern regions and improve Russia’s technological sovereignty,” Putin said. 
There are plans to build a high-capacity LNG precessing center in the Murmansk Region as well; it will be supplied by a new gas pipeline that connects Volkhov, Murmansk and Belokamenka. 
I will not go into detail, but I very much hope that our companies, with the help of the Government, will come to an agreement among themselves regarding how and who will be engaged in the construction of this important infrastructure facility. This is very important for Murmansk and the local communities, as well as for Karelia,” the President clarified. 
Vladimir Putin noted that the industry is growing and, after the successful startup of the Yamal LNG project, another large project was launched to build an LNG terminal in the polar region. 
[This is] the first technological line for the Arctic LNG 2 project. It has already been delivered to the plant site, and installation is underway,” the President added. 
The line is a unique floating natural gas liquefaction facility that was designed with Russian technology and capability. 
Kharitonov: Freight shipping to the northern territories guarantees sustainable national development 
About 14 bylaws are needed to implement the northern freight shipping program, said the Chair of the State Duma Committee on the Development of the Far East and Arctic, Nikolai Kharitonov, at a key session on northern freight shipping, part of the 8th Eastern Economic Forum. 
We have drafted a plan to successfully implement the new law on Northern Freight Shipping, and I am convinced that we will fulfill it. All of our northern territories will be receiving foodstuffs, other staple goods, medications and construction materials on a timely basis and at a cheaper price,” Kharitonov noted. 
He also listed the issues linked with the successful implementation of northern freight shipping. The list includes the use of double-hulled ships, expanding the capacity of the railway system to deliver goods from European Russia, construction of river docks, and offering larger subsidies to Russian companies to reimburse them for comprehensive projects to develop, create and produce ship equipment and components. 
Today, the northern freight shipping system supplies 25 regions. The Republic of Sakha Yakutia traditionally accounts for 55 percent of these shipments, followed by the Kamchatka Territory and Chukotka with 18 percent and almost 10 percent, respectively. This shipping system serves 206 municipal districts, over 3 million people and handles over 3 million metric tons of vital goods. This is why efforts to facilitate uninterrupted shipping to the northern territories are an important condition of sustainable national development,” Nikolai Kharitonov noted. 
Memorial cross erected on Alexandra Land 
An eight-meter tall cross was erected on the Alexandra Land island by military personnel of the Northern Navy and representatives of the Russian Geographical Society to mark the 150th anniversary of the discovery of the Franz Josef Land archipelago, the press service of the Russian Ministry of Defense reported. 
The northernmost memorial cross, made of larch according to the Orthodox canons, was placed in the Russian Arctic National Park on Cape Dvoinoy. The cross is eight meters tall, weighs 1.5 tons, and was delivered to the island from the mainland by the Northern Navy. 
The installation was carried out during a complex expedition of the Northern Fleet and the Russian Geographical Society to the Franz Josef Land archipelago as part of the Russian Arctic and Antarctica project initiated by the Patriarchate. 
Rear Admiral Sergei Artamonov, head of the regional defense control center of the Northern Navy headquarters, noted that the memorial cross was erected to mark the 150th anniversary of the discovery of the Franz Josef Land archipelago. He stressed that the development of these territories will continue to increase Russia’s presence here. Infrastructure will be built that will make it possible to protect the Arctic expanses of Russia. 
The consecration of the cross was performed by Bishop Iakov of Naryan-Mar and Mezen. He held a prayer service, and at the end congratulated all those present on this significant event. 
Russian Defense Ministry holds Northern Sea Route security exercise 
The Russian Pacific Fleet conducted the Finval-2023 exercise which was focused on security of the Northern Sea Route. The drills took place in the Chukchi Sea and the Bering Sea under the supervision of Russian Navy Commander-in-Chief Admiral Nikolai Yevmenov. 
Around 10,000 military personnel and over 50 units of military equipment were involved in the exercise, according to the Defense Ministry. The exercise included missile and artillery launches; anti-aircraft, anti-vessel and anti-airborne troop defense, and a foot-mission across roadless terrain in the Arctic. 
During the first stage of the drills, our personnel performed a mock strike targeting a group of vessels in the northeastern part of the Bering Sea,” the Defense Ministry’s press release states. 
The crews of the guards missile cruiser Varyag, the nuclear submarine Tomsk and the Bastion coastal defense missile system practiced a missile strike, successfully hitting their targets, according to the ministry. 
The Defense Ministry stressed that the purpose of the exercise was to strengthen defense and improve the skills of the troops and forces operating on the northeastern borders of Russia.” 
Russian Foreign Ministry: Russia to withdraw from Barents Euro-Arctic Council 
Russia has decided to end its participation in the Barents Euro-Arctic Council (BEAC). Russia has been a member for 30 years. 
According to a statement issued by the Russian Foreign Ministry, the decision to withdraw was caused by actions of the council’s Western members including Denmark, Iceland, Norway, Finland, Sweden and the EU. 
The Council’s activities have been effectively paralyzed since March 2022. The Finnish presidency failed to confirm the transfer of the BEAC presidency to Russia, scheduled for October 2023, in violation of the principle of rotation, thus disrupting the necessary preparations,” the statement says. 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov sent out the respective message to the foreign ministers of the BEAC member states, saying: 
We are convinced that the fleeting political situation, which our northern European neighbours are guided by, does not correspond to the long-term interests of the people of the Arctic region. Responsibility for breaking down the architecture of Barents cooperation rests entirely with our ‘partners’.” 
Russian experts develop frost-resistant adhesive for the Arctic 
Specialists from the Institute of Technical Chemistry, at the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, have synthesized new frost-resistant adhesives that can withstand temperatures down to minus 60 or minus 70 degrees Celsius. The institute is also a subsidiary of the Perm Federal Research Center, the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
A unique synthesizing process allowed scientists to upgrade compounds that are more resilient than their predecessors, and that harden below minus 70 degrees Celsius. 
The use of hardening mixtures with different properties makes it possible to boost the physical-mechanical parameters of the materials that are being developed,” said Alexei Slobodinyuk, PhD (Technology), a senior research associate with the institute. 
The advanced characteristics of the new adhesives will make it possible to use them for joining various structures and also as sealants. The new compounds also have a shape memory effect for use as self-healing frost-resistant coatings. 
The Russian Foundation for Basic Research is sponsoring this promising project. 
St. Petersburg gets world’s biggest ice navigation training center 
A new ice navigation training complex opened at the Admiral Makarov State University of Maritime and Inland Shipping on September 20. Initiated by the university’s Continuing Vocational Training Department, the project was carried out in cooperation with Rostransmodernizatsiya, a federal state institution under the Russian Transport Ministry, with a mandate to implement comprehensive development projects in the transport sector. 
This new training complex at Makarov University will help ship navigation professionals improve their skills in navigating high-capacity ships and vessels with special maneuvering properties both at sea and on inland waters. What makes this training complex special is that it focuses on modeling the ice navigation experience and will train navigation officers to work in Arctic waters,” Sergei Baryshnikov, Rector of Makarov University, said during the opening ceremony. 
The complex includes five navigation bridges within a single network. It can be quickly set up to simulate vessels of various kinds, including their maneuvering and inertial properties, while offering a wide range of rudder propeller units and control boards, as well as modelling the way a ship’s hull interacts with ice cover of various kinds. The university paid special attention to modelling ARC4 and ARC7 ice-class vessels equipped with azipods and rudder propeller units for teaching navigators to run these ships and drafting guidelines for maneuvering in and around Russian Arctic ports, which are under construction or are about to be expanded. 
The ice navigation training equipment is expected to satisfy the demand from shipping and crewing companies for training qualified personnel to work in the Arctic. 
This new ice navigation training complex will supplement a similar center at the Krylov State Scientific Center. Makarov University has been using this facility with its six bridges since 2015. Now, the two centers will be able to train up to 33 navigators at once,” Director of Makarov University’s Continuing Vocational Training Department, Sergei Aizinov, said. 
Russia operates the world’s largest icebreaker fleet, by a wide margin, with 37 vessels of this kind, followed by Sweden and Finland with seven icebreakers each, Canada with six, the United States with five, and Denmark with four icebreakers. China, Argentina, Chile, Estonia, Japan, South Korea, South Africa, Latvia and Norway have one or just a few icebreakers each. Russia is the only country with nuclear icebreakers and has the world’s biggest ice-class transport fleet. 
Ruselectronics develops device with continuous access to meteorological data on the Northern Sea Route 
Ruselectronics, a subsidiary of Rostec State Corporation, has developed a multifunctional system for monitoring meteorological and ice conditions. The system will transmit detailed information on the weather in any area, and will also transmit data to ships in the Arctic in the absence of communication with land-based stations. The necessary tests should be completed before the end of 2024. 
The hardware and software for for receiving, processing and relaying hydrometeorological information can be in either land or sea formats. It is capable of operating in the extreme conditions of the Arctic with ambient temperatures as low as - 60 °C and wind speeds of up to 50 m/s. The system identifies and processes information on the type and amount of cloud cover, precipitation intensity, and surface temperatures. The data is displayed on the workstation monitor. 
Our system is as good, if not better, than existing systems for monitoring hydrometeorological information, including foreign made systems. The use of modern transceiver units and advanced software has made it possible to significantly reduce the size of the equipment, as well as cut costs while maintaining the functionality of other professional stations. Some components of the system have already demonstrated their effectiveness as part of Russian Emergencies Ministry exercises and have received positive feedback. By the end of 2024, the Television Research Institute plans to carry out the necessary tests and to begin sending the equipment to the first customers,” noted Alexei Nikitin, acting general director of the Television Research Institute. 
The equipment provides combined reception of information from Earth remote sensing satellites with one antenna in two frequency - centimeter and decimeter - ranges at once. This eliminates the need to build separate stations and reduces the cost of maintaining additional equipment. 
The engineering designs used to create the system ensure compatibility with existing equipment and also with anticipated future weather satellites. 
Meteorological information requests are possible not only within the region, but also by coordinate for separate areas, which increases data accuracy in difficult climatic conditions. 
New state work-safety standard includes polar bear encounters 
A new state work-safety standard for the Arctic’s first responders that entered into force on October 1, 2023 lists requirements for search and rescue operations’ safety in the Russian Arctic: the national standards includes also possible encounters with polar bears. 
The first national standard GOST R 22.8.14. 14-2023 Safety During Emergency Situations, Search and Rescue Operations in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation, General Provisions, has been approved,” reads a message on the website of the All-Russian Research and Development Institute for Civil Defense and Emergency Situations. 
The document notes an objective need to facilitate effective search and rescue operations in adverse Arctic conditions, including offshore the Northern Sea Route. It also takes into account the specifics of emergency rescue technology development for the first time. 
The national standard specifies how fast first responders should deploy from their anchor bases to airfields, from where they will be dispatched to deal with regional and inter-regional emergencies. This includes operations as part of an air-mobile group of a Russian region or of a regional search and rescue unit. Airfield deployment deadlines are three hours on weekdays and three and a half hours on weekends,” the above institute’s website says. 
Ships serving with permanent response units are to reach a disaster area within 60 minutes of receiving a distress call. Specialized ships alone, stationed near oil and gas production facilities, are to respond to incidents there. 
The state standard also requires safety guarantees for rescue workers before launching search and rescue operations, while heeding the fact that polar bears are the main predators in the Arctic and a major part of the local ecosystem. 
Nuclear power plants, nuclear icebreakers and navy ship bases, hazardous chemical and explosion-prone facilities, as well as important communications components, are located in the Russian Arctic. They can cause various industrial accidents. The Northern Sea Route is the main element of the regional transport system for freight traffic via all coastal areas of the Arctic Ocean, and it can become a very important international transport route in the future. 
Each year, an average of 100 industrial or other accidents take place in the Russian Arctic. The number of industrial accidents continues to increase steadily, with transport accidents accounting for 30 percent of the total, followed by explosions and fires involving manufacturing equipment (24 percent). 
The world's northernmost photo exhibition opens in Spitsbergen (Svalbard) 
The world's northernmost photo exhibition, ‘Pyramiden in my Heart,’ opened in the Russian settlement of Pyramiden on Spitsbergen at the local community center. 
My photo series emphasizes the people who live and work in Pyramiden today, the people we have to thank for the settlement continuing to live and receive tourists from around the world. People of different ages and professions, who are usually not included in pictures by visiting press, are in the frame doing their work. My subjects include construction workers, cooks, drivers and tourism workers. The photos also show people from Barentsburg in Pyramiden on business, as well as tourists, polar bears, reindeer and Arctic foxes," explained the author of the exhibition Stanislav Shubert, who is a director from Novosibirsk. 
Shubert said that many of the shots were developed in a darkroom in Pyramiden, which offers the northernmost developing laboratory in the world. The exhibition includes printing equipment: a Soviet image enlarger, the Belarus-5, photographic paper, and developing canisters that were used. The equipment was found in various abandoned buildings in Pyramiden. 
"All the photos were taken on film, as I love film and believe that it is the most vivid and colorful way to convey the texture of objects and the atmosphere of a scene. The color photos were taken on wide slide film, and the black and white images were taken on ordinary black and white film and then hand-printed on an enlarger in the traditional way, in a dark room under a red light, like in Soviet times," Shubert said. 
He added that this is his first personal photo exhibition. About 15 people gathered at the cultural and sports complex for the opening – almost half the current population of the village. The next day, residents of the neighboring Norwegian town of Longyearbyen and tourists from the small passenger boat Polargirl came to see the exhibition. 
The exhibition will run through the end of October, i.e., until the navigation season is closed. After this, only a small wintering staff remains in Pyramiden as it’s only possible to access the village by helicopter. 
"Next month I plan to move the show to Barentsburg and open it at the local community center. In the future, the photo exhibition will travel around various Russian cities. I hope it will be possible to do this with support from the Russian Geographical Society," said the author of the exhibition. 
Inauguration ceremony for Vladislav Kuznetsov, the new Governor of the Chukotka Autonomous Area 
An inauguration ceremony for Vladislav Kuznetsov, the Governor of the Chukotka Autonomous Area, was held in Anadyr. Deputy Prime Minister of the Russian Federation and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev took part in the ceremony. 
"First of all, I congratulate the newly elected head of the region on the election; 72 percent of the vote is a very good result for the elected head of a region. It means that almost three quarters of the residents of the Chukotka Autonomous Area trust in the new governor and that he will be able to change their lives for the better. Probably, the most important goal for the head of a region is to justify this trust, so the people can see how their lives are getting better," emphasized Yury Trutnev. 
The Deputy Prime Minister recalled that Vladislav Kuznetsov was appointed Acting Governor of the Chukotka Autonomous Area by Executive Order of Vladimir Putin on March 15, 2023. Before that, the region was headed by Roman Kopin for 15 years. 
"A lot has been done over the past 15 years; new projects have been implemented and the economy has been growing. But we all understand that this is not enough. It is necessary to move forward, to make Chukotka a self-sufficient and prosperous region that is comfortable to live in," he said. 
Yury Trutnev addressed the residents of the Chukotka Autonomous Area. 
"I want to ask the people of the region to help the governor. You have already expressed your trust, supported him in the election. This is certainly important. But it is even more important that you support the governor on his continuing path. No regional head can make the region prosperous alone. We all have to work together," said the Deputy Prime Minister. 
Vladislav Kuznetsov expressed his gratitude to all the people who entrusted him with the management of the region, and to President of Russia Vladimir Putin, who gave him confidence. 
"Today is an important day for me. I thank all the residents of the Chukotka Autonomous Area who entrusted me with the management of the region. I am grateful to everyone who supported me during these months, came to meetings, and made suggestions for the development of the region. I am grateful to everyone who came to the polling stations and made their choice. I will do my best to justify your trust. I am grateful to President of Russia Vladimir Putin, who nominated me as a candidate for the head of the region," he said to the audience. 
According to Vladislav Kuznetsov, Chukotka is a special region, an Arctic outpost in the northeast of Russia, and in a difficult foreign policy environment, the region should still be able to develop at an advanced pace. The Governor is sure that only in this way will it be possible not only to strengthen the borders of the state, but also to achieve the main goal: to improve the quality of people's lives. 
On March 15, 2023, Vladimir Putin accepted the resignation of the Governor of the Chukotka Autonomous Area, Roman Kopin, and appointed Vladislav Kuznetsov Acting Governor until the election. 
State Duma lifts energy price caps for industrial consumers in Russian Far East and Arctic regions 
The State Duma adopted a law that regulates electricity rates in the Far East and the Arctic for certain industrial users. The law, adopted in the third reading, amends the federal law On the Electric Power Industry. The bill, sponsored by the Russian government, is aimed at stimulating entrepreneurial activity. 
The new legislation was drafted by the Ministry of Energy with a view to building long-term relations between energy companies and industrial consumers, to prevent a decrease in their financial and economic stability, to improve the investment climate and stimulate business activity in Russian Far East and Arctic regions in the context of the sanctions. The amendment will liberalize pricing for bilateral wholesale contracts for facilities that open after July 1, 2017, and that are located in regions of Russia that are not included in competitive or regulated price zones. 
An analysis of law enforcement practice has shown that the key issue affecting the possibility of implementing major investment projects is the availability of loans from Russian commercial banks and financial institutions, which require borrowers to provide guarantees for their project’s planned revenue over the entire implementation period,” the explanatory note says. 
This amendment abolishes the price cap, which will give the respective parties the opportunity to reach preliminary agreements on electricity (capacity) prices as well as the period for which they can be set. It also clarified the regulation of long-term take-or-pay bilateral contracts in retail electricity markets. These changes are aimed at stimulating economic activity and promoting stable contractual relations between electricity producers and consumers of electricity, the explanatory note says. 
The consumers, that is, the producers of precious metals and stones in the region, will be entitled to use a three-year mechanism of gradual bringing the phased-in preferential” (reduced) electricity rates to an economically justified level. To increase the efficiency of investment and business activity, the bill provides for a price reduction mechanism until 2028 for consumers engaged in the mining of precious metals and stones and implementing investment projects in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation. 
The Government approves Arkhangelsk Transport Hub development plan until 2035 
The Russian Government continues to work on the infrastructure in the Arctic zone for developing the Northern Sea Route, an essential transport artery of national and global importance. 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin signed a directive approving a comprehensive development plan for the Arkhangelsk Transport Hub until 2035. The plan is the result of joint efforts by the Arkhangelsk Region Government and the federal Government. The first subsidized coastal voyage departed from Arkhangelsk via the Northern Sea Route in August. 
Drafted last year as per the Presidential instructions, the Northern Sea Route Development Plan covers a period until the mid-2030s. We have drafted a roadmap to develop the Arkhangelsk Transport Hub, considering the key role it plays in the Arctic. All this will substantially strengthen the transport framework in Russia’s northwest. We expect shipments through the port of Arkhangelsk to at least triple by the end of the next decade. This would pave the way for the implementation of several major industrial projects, and the creation of new jobs at hundreds of enterprises around the country that will contribute to setting up and operating new shipping and manufacturing capabilities,” Mikhail Mishustin noted at a meeting with deputies on current issues. 
According to Alexander Tsybulsky, the Port of Arkhangelsk is a crucial point in an extensive system focused on the development of the Northern Sea Route whose infrastructure is being built at the President’s instruction. 
The terminal and the deep-water section will be built in several stages. 
In 2024, interested investors and the Arkhangelsk Region government are to draft an investment declaration, to be reviewed by the Federal Agency for Sea and Inland Water Transport. Project specifications will be finished in 2025-2026, followed by the first construction phase. The new terminal and the deep-water section at the Port of Arkhangelsk are expected to open in 2031. 
The plan includes the construction and launch of a terminal for zinc-lead concentrate on the Novaya Zemlya archipelago in 2026. Additionally, upgrading the nuclear ship fleet and ice-class vessels, developing railway and road infrastructure, including construction of new access roads and bridges connected to the existing and new terminals at the Port of Arkhangelsk, are essential parts of this development plan,” Alexander Tsybulsky added. 
The document also provides for exploring the feasibility of building and renovating the coastal infrastructure in Arkhangelsk for docking rescue vessels, hydrographic survey ships and buoy vessels at the Port of Arkhangelsk. 
A substantial part of the plan concerns upgrading the icebreaker fleet and ice-class fleet, specifically, a Project 23620 icebreaker will be built to operate in the White Sea. Also, a decision was made to build a research and expedition vessel under the NES 126 project. The new vessel will ensure the operation of remote Russian Weather Service stations and environmental monitoring in the Arctic. 
Another extensive section of the plan concerns the development of railway and road infrastructure including new access roads and bridges connected to the existing and new terminals of the Port of Arkhangelsk. Expected results include the modernized and higher-capacity Solombalka Railway Station (to be finished in 2024–2027), capital renovation of vehicular bridges across the Povrakulka and Solombalka rivers, and construction of a bridge across the Kuznechikha River. These bridge projects will be completed in 2026-2028. 
Other scheduled measures include developing communications, digitalization, improving navigation safety in the waters around the Arkhangelsk Transport Hub, and developing the port’s workforce and research potential. 
Experts to study gene pool of Ob horse breed on Yamal Peninsula 
Scientists from the non-profit partnership Russian Center for Arctic Development and the National Research and Development Institute of Horse-Breeding are studying the gene pool of the Ob horse breed and are attempting to record its population. 
The habitat of the Ob horse breed, one of the oldest northern horse breeds, includes areas above the Arctic Circle. Studying northern horse breeds, will allow researchers to understand the specific conditions and ways these horses have adapted to the harsh Arctic climate to survive and to expand their population,” the researchers said. 
A main goal of the research projects is to describe the genomes of Yamal horses. 
This past summer, scientists conducted a comprehensive study of the horse population and compared the results with earlier observations, which have been conducted since 1936, to confirm the horse breed based on appearance. They collected and analyzed biological materials from Ob horses, confirmed the authenticity of their origins and compiled an online database for registering the population. 
The research team will launch its second expedition, to create a plan to preserve the Ob horse breed and to improve its distinctive features through targeted selection. 
Closed Arctic garrisons to receive 10 billion rubles annually for renovation 
Over the next three years, closed Arctic garrisons (closed administrative entities), where military personnel and members of their families live, will receive 10 billion rubles annually for the renovation of housing and urban infrastructure. 
As for the renovation of closed administrative entities and other settlements, where military personnel and members of their families live, the minister said today that 10 billion rubles will be allocated annually. This is a large sum, and we will see later whether it is enough, but this is a serious investment in closed garrisons, an amount we have never seen before. I would like to thank Russian President Vladimir Putin for supporting this important initiative for the residents of the Murmansk Region,” said Andrei Chibis, governor of the Murmansk Region, following the parliamentary hearings. 
Chibis added that the master plan for the renovation of closed garrisons in the Murmansk Region was already developed and was now being discussed and amended with various federal agencies in order to follow Russian President Vladimir Putin’s instructions. 
At parliamentary hearings on the draft budget for 2024-2026 in the Federation Council, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov announced the Russian government’s decision to include the renovation of closed administrative entities in the budget not only for the next year, but also for the planning period until 2026. 
The head of state, who was on a working trip to the Murmansk Region in July and held a meeting on the development of closed administrative entities and Arctic cities, drew attention to the deterioration of up to 70 percent of the housing as well as housing and communal services systems in the Russian Arctic, which is strategically important for the country. Following the meeting, the President instructed the Government to adopt an action plan for the development of housing, energy, and social infrastructure in these areas, identify sources of funding, and make the appropriate decisions as part of the new federal budget. 
The renovation of closed administrative entities in the Murmansk Region has been carried out at the initiative of Governor Chibis since 2019. Over the years, about 14 billion rubles have been invested in this. Under the program for the renovation of garrisons and military camps in the Arctic, more than 152,000 people will see improved living conditions, which is almost 20 percent of the population of the Arctic region. There are 27 settlements in the region, including five closed administrative entities, where military personnel are deployed with their families. 
Over the next three years, closed Arctic garrisons (closed administrative entities), where military personnel and members of their families live, will receive 10 billion rubles annually for the renovation of housing and urban infrastructure. 
As for the renovation of closed administrative entities and other settlements, where military personnel and members of their families live, the minister said today that 10 billion rubles will be allocated annually. This is a large sum, and we will see later whether it is enough, but this is a serious investment in closed garrisons, an amount we have never seen before. I would like to thank Russian President Vladimir Putin for supporting this important initiative for the residents of the Murmansk Region,” said Andrei Chibis, governor of the Murmansk Region, following the parliamentary hearings. 
Chibis added that the master plan for the renovation of closed garrisons in the Murmansk Region was already developed and was now being discussed and amended with various federal agencies in order to follow Russian President Vladimir Putin’s instructions. 
At parliamentary hearings on the draft budget for 2024-2026 in the Federation Council, Finance Minister Anton Siluanov announced the Russian government’s decision to include the renovation of closed administrative entities in the budget not only for the next year, but also for the planning period until 2026. 
The head of state, who was on a working trip to the Murmansk Region in July and held a meeting on the development of closed administrative entities and Arctic cities, drew attention to the deterioration of up to 70 percent of the housing as well as housing and communal services systems in the Russian Arctic, which is strategically important for the country. Following the meeting, the President instructed the Government to adopt an action plan for the development of housing, energy, and social infrastructure in these areas, identify sources of funding, and make the appropriate decisions as part of the new federal budget. 
The renovation of closed administrative entities in the Murmansk Region has been carried out at the initiative of Governor Chibis since 2019. Over the years, about 14 billion rubles have been invested in this. Under the program for the renovation of garrisons and military camps in the Arctic, more than 152,000 people will see improved living conditions, which is almost 20 percent of the population of the Arctic region. There are 27 settlements in the region, including five closed administrative entities, where military personnel are deployed with their families. 
Bill abolishing border control for cruise ships submitted to the State Duma 
A bill was introduced to the State Duma that will lift border controls for cruise ships flying the Russian flag when they call at ports in the Arctic and the Far East. 
The legislators noted that Russian cruise ships are required to comply with border regulations, which entails the need to obtain numerous permits and send notifications. 
As it is, state border requirements are tougher for Russian cruise ships than for foreign cruise ships, so the exemption of border control regulations for Russian cruise ships and their passengers and crew, as provided for by the provisions of the draft federal law, is aimed at eliminating this inequality,” the explanatory note states. 
The bill proposes supplementing Article 16 of the Law On the State Border of the Russian Federation (maintenance and establishment of border control) with a new provision that says border control regulations do not apply to ships flying the Russian flag that carry passengers for tourism purposes, when calling at ports and/or points located in interior sea waters and the territorial seas of ​​the Russian Federation adjacent to the territories of the constituent entities of the Russian Federation included in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation and/or the Far Eastern Federal District, as specified in the agreement of a tourism product sale, as well as to the passengers and crew of these ships, provided they notify the border authorities with information on the route, passengers and crew of the ship.” 
List of Russian Arctic base settlements to be determined by November 1 
Approaches and criteria for creating a list of base settlements in the Russian Arctic were discussed at a meeting of the working group on the development of the Arctic under the Russian State Council Commission chaired by Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrey Chibis in Moscow. 
Russia’s Arctic zone covers an enormous area, with the Northern Sea Route being developed here and investment projects implemented that have an impact on the entire world market. In addition, this is the shield and sword of our Motherland. Considering all these components, we must designate base settlements or towns in the context of ensuring all these projects,” said Minister for Development of the Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov. 
An expert council was created under the working group, and they prepared proposals for determining approaches and criteria for identifying base settlements in the Russian Arctic. 
Our group has been active for less than a year. But thanks to our cooperation, the topics we have raised have received support. One is the renovation of closed administrative entities. We discussed this recently at a meeting with President of Russia Vladimir Putin as part of his visit to the Murmansk Region. Today, at the parliamentary hearings, Minister of Finance of the Russian Federation Anton Siluanov said 10 billion rubles from the federal budget would be allocated annually in the next three years to support restricted administrative territories in the Arctic zone. The areas of preferential mortgages and support cities will also be supported, and there are advising decisions,” the governor emphasized. 
Chair of the Federation Council Committee on Federal Structure, Regional Policy, Local Self-Government and Northern Affairs Andrei Shevchenko said that Arctic development centers that are located outside metropolitan areas and that can become centers of attraction for adjacent territories are also important. 
Base settlements are an important element of the economic system in the Arctic. Masterplans must be prepared based on a socioeconomic and spatial analysis of the territory and systematic work with businesses and local people. It is also necessary to think about renovating them. It is important to attract companies that operate in the Arctic,” he concluded. 
A list of base settlements in the Russian Arctic is to be determined by November 1, 2023. Eventually, a headquarters for the development of cities and other settlements in the Russian Arctic will develop support measures and review developed masterplans; it will be headed by Andrey Chibis and Alexei Chekunkov. 
Norway asks Russia to reduce the compensation for damage caused by reindeer grazing 
Norway has asked Russia to reduce the amount charged for damage caused by unauthorised grazing of Norwegian reindeer in Russia's Pasvik Nature Reserve from 47 million kroner to 50,000 kroner. 
The Norwegian side is not prepared to pay 47 million Norwegian kroner and is offering the lowest amount for a settlement based on the 2007 pattern of compensation – 50,000 Norwegian kroner for damages caused by 40 reindeer during 65 days in the Russian reserve in 2023,” is stated in the reserve's message following the meeting of the Directorate of Agriculture of Norway and Pasvik representatives. 
From December 2022 to February 2023, a herd of 40 domestic Norwegian reindeer crossed the Russian-Norwegian border along the Paatsjoki River and fed on reindeer moss in a specially protected nature reserve in Russia. The directorate of the Russian reserve has demanded that Oslo pay 47 million kroner ($4.4 million) in damages for the time the reindeer were in Russia’s Pasvik Nature Reserve, as well as 50,000 kroner ($4,700) for each animal that crossed into Russia and grazed in the reserve. 
The parties will hold two meetings in the near future to settle the issue. At the first meeting, they will approve a model of compensation for damages, which will be held in the Russian village of Nickel. At the second meeting, the parties will discuss the method for estimating the damages from reindeer grazing. In the future, this could be included in the 1977 agreement between the Russian Federation and Norway on the mutual return of reindeer crossing the state border. As there are still no standards, the amount of compensation raises questions with every incident. 
Three boiler facilities in the Murmansk Region will be converted to biofuel 
The Murmansk Region has approved three facilities – existing boiler houses operating on coal and fuel oil – to be converted to biofuel (including pellets). 
According to Governor Andrey Chibis’s directive, funds from a special treasury loan issued by the Federal Treasury will be mainly used to implement these measures. 
According to the document, in 2023-2024 the heating system in the Drovyanoye neighborhood unit will be modernized with the conversion to biofuel instead of coal-fired thermal energy generation. In total, 47.8 million rubles will be allocated for the update, including a special treasury loan totaling over 37.8 million rubles, the region’s share of 382,000 rubles and extra-budgetary sources in the amount of over 9.5 million rubles. 
Also, a diesel boiler house will be modernized in Drovyanoye in 2023-2024. The conversion to biofuel here will cost 28.3 million rubles, of which 22.4 million rubles will come from a special treasury loan, 5.6 million rubles from extra-budgetary sources, and 226,500 rubles from the region. 
At the same time, the heat distribution system in the village at the 25th kilometer of the Monchegorsk-Olenya Railway will be upgraded from coal to biofuel. 26.7 million rubles will be allocated for this purpose, including 21.1 million rubles from a special treasury loan, 5.3 million rubles from extra-budgetary sources, and 213,000 rubles from the region. 
Thus, over 102.8 million rubles will be spent in total to upgrade the three boiler facilities. 
Chinese researchers use underwater robot to study the Chukchi Sea 
An autonomous underwater vehicle (AUV), the XH1000, has been used by Chinese researchers during an Arctic expedition. 
The robot was created by scientists at Harbin Engineering University and has been tested in the sea during the 13th research expedition to study the Arctic Ocean where it discovered a subglacial environment near the Chukchi Sea and transmitted the bulk of data, including temperature, salinity and the pH level of the ocean water. 
The robotized submersible, equipped with Chinese-made hydrolocators, studied an area of 7,000 square meters under Arctic ice. 
According to Zhu Zhongben, an associate professor at Harbin Engineering University and the leader of the dive team, the collected data will help scientists better understand the process of change in the sea ice and ocean currents in this region, and help in counteracting the impact of climate change on China. 
According to the professor, the expedition members tested some technology, including underwater navigation in the high latitudes of the polar region, and received valuable experience in working with AUVs in the high-risk polar regions and in extreme weather conditions. 
Murmansk Region head suggests balancing northern regions’ budgets using his model 
At a meeting of the of the Federation Council Committee, Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrei Chibis proposed balancing the budgets of the regions in the Far North and the Russian Arctic using the Murmansk Region as an example. 
At a meeting of the Committee on Budget and Financial Markets, Andrei Chibis emphasized that the Murmansk Region’s budget system is stable, and that the efforts of the regional government are aimed at growing the economy and the investment potential of the region, which influences increases in the revenue base of the regional budget and maintaining its stability. 
Thanks to support from Russian President Vladimir Putin, the Murmansk Region is experiencing a second rebirth in terms of economic development. Over the past four years, we have increased our GRP per capita by 2.5 times,” Chibis said, according to the report. 
He added that investment volumes in the Murmansk Region, including as part of the Capital of Arctic priority development area projects and preferential treatment in the Russian Arctic, amounted to 900 billion rubles, with 5,000 new jobs created. At the same time, the governor emphasized that there are a number of features in the region, including climatic ones, which seriously affect both the financial stability of the region and its socio-economic development. These include long heating periods and fuel oil costs, increased budgetary costs stipulated by legislation for the Far North regions: northern allowances, long vacations, and travel allowance. 
At the same time, the region does not receive subsidies to equalize budgetary security due to the high level of estimated budgetary provision in the region, as determined by the methodology for distributing subsidies. 
Due to this, the governor made several proposals to ensure budgetary stability in the Far North regions using the Murmansk Region as an example. 
First, the head of the Murmansk Region emphasized that it was necessary to reconsider approaches to how to calculate the level of budgetary provision, considering the peculiarities and specifics of the regions and excluding one-time excess tax revenues,” the regional Ministry of Information Policy explained. 
In addition, it is necessary to provide subsidies to increase wages for public sector workers and those regions that do not receive equalization subsidies, since the annual increase in wage costs for decreed” categories of workers and the increase in the minimum wage are a serious burden for the budgets of the regions in the Extreme North. 
The Governor noted that increasing the minimum wage and higher wages for public sector employees is a good thing to do. But specifically for the Murmansk Region, where the minimum wage is 2.3 times higher than in Russia in general, and the average income from labor is 45 percent higher than the national average, these costs fall entirely on the region. 
In fact, we allocate the additional money we receive from the development of the economy to compensate for these increased expenses, thereby reducing our opportunities for investing in the development of the social sphere and urban infrastructure,” the head of the Murmansk Region said. 
As the regional Ministry of Information Policy noted, Chibis’ proposals were supported by the committee members. 
Far East Development Ministry proposes subsidized mortgages for doctors and teachers in the Artic 
At an expanded meeting of the Federation Council Committee on Federal Structure, Regional Policy, Local Government and Northern Affairs, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East Alexei Chekunkov, said preferential mortgage rates of 2 percent should be available to doctors and teachers in the Arctic. 
We believe a subsidized Arctic mortgage rate program should be initiated in the widest possible format, just like in the Far East. We will achieve this. This is especially important for doctors and teachers – mortgages have been expanded to cover this category in the Far East, regardless of age,” Chekunkov said. 
The minister noted that it is not easy to attract social workers to remote regions, but that preferential mortgage rates would help resolve this issue. The possibility of expanding reduced Arctic mortgage rates to these specialists is already being discussed, Chekunkov added. 
Preferential Far Eastern mortgage rates were launched in 2019. The program allows for receiving a mortgage for housing in the Far Eastern Federal District at a preferential rate of no more than 2 percent annually. With this program, citizens can buy housing in new buildings, as well as secondary-market apartments, if they are located in rural settlements, in the Magadan Region or the Chukotka Autonomous Area or in single-industry towns. 
The Government makes a list of backbone territories in Russia's Arctic zone 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has drafted a list of backbone territories in the Russian Arctic zone. It includes 16 agglomerations consisting of 26 settlements. 
These are 16 backbone settlements: the Murmansk agglomeration, which includes the Northern Fleet base and the closed administrative territorial entity of Severomorsk; the Kirovsk-Apatity agglomeration <...>; the Monchegorsk agglomeration <....>; the Kem-Belomorsk agglomeration in the Republic of Karelia <...>; the Arkhangelsk agglomeration <...>; the Naryan-Mar agglomeration; and Novy Urengoi, Noyabrsk and Salekhard in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. The Vorkuta agglomeration in Komi; Norilsk and Dudinka in the Krasnoyarsk Territory <...>; Dikson and Tiksi in Yakutia; and Pevek and Anadyr in Chukotka,” Maksim Dankin, director of the department for Russian Arctic development and project implementation at the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, said during a meeting of the centre for developing cities and other settlements in the Russian Arctic zone. 
Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov added that by July 1, 2024, master plans until 2035 should be developed for the selected settlements. Also, by October 1, 2024, a comprehensive plan for the long-term socio-economic development of these settlements until 2035 should be approved, based on the developed master plans. As Dankin noted, various criteria were taken into account when drafting the list of settlements; the selection system was based the functional characteristics of certain cities and towns in the Arctic zone. 
An emphasis was placed on closed administrative territorial entities, places of residence and deployment of military units, the border zone, mining industry development, existing reserves for developing deposits, including for the uninterrupted supply of metallurgical enterprises with strategically important raw materials for import substitution, and major investment projects, including those related to projects of technological sovereignty,” Dankin said. 
Over 150 polar bears live in the Medvezhyi Islands Nature Reserve 
The second stage of the polar bear census has been completed in the Medvezhyi Islands Nature Reserve (aka the Bear Islands Nature Reserve) in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). Using Orlan-10 long-range unmanned aerial vehicles, scientists received more than 25,000 images and processed them with a specially trained neural network. 
Artificial intelligence produced the preliminary result: more than 150 polar bears. The exact number of individuals and the distribution of polar bear populations throughout the reserve will be determined during subsequent data processing. Also, the collected materials will make it possible to give a preliminary assessment of accumulated environmental damage. 
At the moment, there is no area in the world where this kind of research is being carried out. There is also no data on how climate change and anthropogenic factors impact Arctic ecosystems, or on the dynamics of change in the characteristics of polar bear populations, which confirms the importance of regular monitoring,” noted expedition leader Ilya Chernook, development director of Ecofactor Ecological Center. 
After processing the images recorded during the expedition, scientists plan to create a cartographic website for the reserve. They will also develop a five-year program of regular monitoring of territories using UAVs to assess population sizes and the consequences of anthropogenic impact. 
Taking a census of animals in the Arctic Medvezhyi Islands Nature Reserve is an important stage in the census of polar bears listed in the Red Book. Last winter, scientists counted 864 bears on Wrangel Island. They also plan to determine population numbers in the ​​Herald Island and Wrangel Island’s sea area. These data will allow us to understand how many polar bears live in the Russian Arctic and to plan measures to protect them,” Minister of Natural Resources Alexander Kozlov said. 
British MPs: UK properties at risk of flooding due to melting Arctic ice 
Up to 1.5 million UK properties could be flooded because of rising seas caused by melting Arctic ice, noted members of the House of Commons Environmental Audit Committee’s Sub-Committee on Polar Research[ГВА1] in their report. 
According to the committee members, additional evidence proves that changes in the Arctic environment could cause more extreme weather phenomena in the UK. 
Chair of the Polar Research Sub-Committee, James Gray[ГВА2] , urged the government to appoint a polar envoy and said: Whitehall has not been paying enough attention to the Arctic and is a missing an opportunity[ГВА3] . 
The fact that the ministers have not yet met indicates a lack of enthusiasm on Arctic matters in the heart of government: they must meet quarterly given the drastic changes we are seeing in our Arctic[ГВА4] area.” 
According to the report, most of the Arctic remains insufficiently studied, and it is necessary to obtain more information on how a changing Arctic environment could impact people’s lives. 
In their report, the committee members noted that the Arctic was heating up four times faster than the rest of the world. They urged the government to include the Arctic on the political agenda and to show greater ambitions in reducing domestic greenhouse gas emissions and to spearhead efforts to protect Arctic science all over the world. 
Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area allots over 400 Arctic hectares 
The Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area has allotted over 480 hectares of land under the Arctic Hectare program. 
Regional law allows applicants to claim up to 25 territories with a total area of over 17,000 hectares in nine municipal entities. Since the program’s inception, over 440 contracts for land use with an area of almost 480 hectares have been signed in the autonomous area. People are mostly interested in land around the village of Krasnoselkup and in the cities of Salekhard, Labytnangi and Noyabrsk,” according to sources at the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area’s legislative assembly press officer. 
First Deputy Speaker of the Yamal Parliament Alexei Sitnikov said applicants can decide on specific land use options two years after acquiring the land plots, that 148 people had already stipulated this, and that they were entitled to state support measures. 
We can now safely say that, despite the local climate, Yamal is quite popular with local residents and people from other Russian regions. This program became so attractive due to a great work by the regional government, the executive and legislative branches and local governments. Yamal is now fourth in the Arctic zone for land use applications and allotted land plots, while the Murmansk Region tops the list,” Speaker of the Yamal legislative assembly Sergei Yamkin explained. 
Phase one of new Arctic coal terminal to begin operations in 2024 
According to notes on the draft regional budget for 2024 and the planning period of 2025-2026, phase one of a sea terminal being developed as part of the Syradasaisky coal project on Taimyr Peninsula, Krasnoyarsk Territory, will be put into operation next year. 
The region’s coal mining industry will further pursue the investment project for the development of the Syradasaisky coal deposit by Severnaya Zvezda (Northern Star), as part of developing the Western Taimyr Industrial Cluster for the processing of coal concentrates. The project is in the active construction phase; phase one of the coal terminal is to begin operations in 2024,” the document reads. 
In April 2023, Severnaya Zvezda Deputy CEO Alexander Pavlov announced the start of the active phase in the construction of the Yenisei Terminal at the port of Dikson on the Northern Sea Route, which is intended for the transshipment of Syradasaisky coal. He also said the investor planned to ship about 1 million metric tons of coal by the end of the year, once the first berth was completed and the approximate 1.8 million cubic meters of earth was removed from the bottom as part of the ongoing dredging operation. 
By 2026, the Yenisei Terminal is to transship an additional 5 million tons of coal per year or more to be shipped via the Northern Sea Route. 
The Syradasaisky field is located 110 kilometers southeast of the town of Dikson in the Taimyr Dolgano-Nenets Region in the Krasnoyarsk Territory. Reserves are estimated at 5 billion tons of coal. The project includes the construction of an open-cast coal mine with a capacity of 5 million metric tons of coal per year in the first stage and 10 million metric tons per year in the second stage, and also a coal-preparation plant, and the necessary infrastructure – a seaport (Yenisei), a new road, a temporary worker village, a power station, an airfield and other facilities. 
The project is being implemented by Severnaya Zvezda (part of AEON Group), a resident company in the Arctic economic zone of the Russian Federation. It is part of the Yenisei Siberia complex investment project and has regional investment project status. Investment in the project will exceed 45 billion rubles until 2025, and about 2,000 jobs will be created. 
Geographers discover unknown island near Novaya Zemlya 
The expedition team in Remember the War, a joint expedition under the Russian Geographical Society and the Russian Defense Ministry to the Severnaya Zemlya archipelago, discovered a new island in the area of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago and added it to their maps. 
As documentary director and traveler Leonid Kruglov said, the discovery was made during the team’s landing on Novaya Zemlya, near Cape Zhelaniya. 
Near the Rykachev Glacier in Zayachy Bay, a new island, just over a kilometer in diameter, was discovered. Hydrographers put the new geographical feature on their maps. Surrounded by floating icebergs, this beautiful island is covered by a small glacier. We spotted a polar bear there, eating a seal,” noted Kruglov. 
Sometime earlier, researchers landed on Wilczek Land Island, the same place discoverers landed 150 years ago. This second largest island of the Franz Josef Land archipelago is named after traveler, philanthropist, polar explorer Johann Nepomuk Wilczek, who financed the expedition of Karl Weyprecht and Julius Payer that discovered the island in 1873. The expedition members erected a flagpole with the Russian flag and held a ceremony to mark the 150th anniversary of discovering this remote archipelago hidden in Arctic Ocean ice. 
Next, the Romuald Muklevich hydrographic vessel headed towards the largest island in the Franz Josef Land archipelago, George Land. In the south of the island, near Gray Bay, researchers used a drone to photograph the location where a group of travelers led by Valerian Albanov, who left the St. Anna schooner trapped in ice, apparently disappeared. Perhaps more information about the polar explorers’ route will appear after reviewing the photos. In addition, hydrographers measured and mapped the depths of the mouth of the previously unexplored Gray Bay, thereby removing another blank spot from the hydrographic map of the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation. 
Russian Foreign Ministry comments on NATO Military Committee chair’s statement on the Arctic 
NATO representatives’ statement about the need to prepare for a conflict with Russia in the Arctic can be explained as an attempt to justify the Alliance’s presence in the region, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry Nikolay Korchunov said. 
I believe the statement is not based on a serious fundamental analysis of the Russian position in the Arctic and is an obvious attempt to justify the need for NATO presence in the Arctic,” Korchunov commented. 
At the Arctic Circle Assembly in Reykjavik, Rob Bauer expressed his concerns about the growing relations between Russia and China. He suggested that China’s commercial and scientific interests, as well as Russia’s significant contribution to the creation of Arctic air bases and other infrastructure, could become harbingers of conflict in the Arctic. 
We cannot be naive and expect these new routes to solely be used by commercial vessels. NATO must be prepared for conflict in the region given Russia’s ability to operate in the Arctic,” Bloomberg writes citing Bauer. 
He also added that NATO is not concerned that the Arctic would become a hotbed immediately.” 
Russian banks have started accepting applications for Arctic mortgages 
VTB Bank has become the first to start accepting applications for Arctic mortgages; the first transactions will begin in early November after the relevant Russian government resolution is signed and comes into force. 
"OnSince October 24, VTB becamehas been the first Russian bank to start accepting applications for Arctic mortgages. From today, borrowers can apply for a housing loan at just two percent. VTB will start conducting the first transactions in early November after the Russian government resolution is signed and becomes effective. The implementation of the Arctic mortgage is supported by the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation," the bank's press service reports. 
The bank anticipatesplans that for the entire term of the loan, favorable сconditions for the entire term of the loan will be available for the purchase of real estate located in the Russian Arctic zone. Residents of the Murmansk Region, Nenets and Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous areas, as well as a number of areasterritories inof the Arkhangelsk Region, Krasnoyarsk Territory, the Republic of Komi and the Republic of Karelia can apply for a mortgage with a minimum rate. At the first stage, customers will be able tocan apply for Arctic mortgages at VTB's contact centere. In early November, loan applications will be available through partners, the website and VTB offices. 
Note that borrowers will be able to obtain funds from VTB for the purchase of apartmentsflats and townhouses on the primary market. In rural settlements and single-industry towns it will beis possible to purchase properties on the secondary market. The cost of one square meter of purchased property may not exceed the average market value for the relevant constituent entity, as determined by the Russian Ministry of Construction as of the date of the mortgage agreement. The terms of the program do not apply to refinancing of previously issued housing loans. 
As specified byin VTB, at the end of the first nine months of 2023, 214,000 borrowers receivedtook out housing loans fromin the bank worthfor 1.1 trillion rubles. This surpassesIn terms of amount it exceeds the result for the whole 2022 and is comparable to the historical historical figure forof 2021. At the end of September, the bank's share in the housing lending market was 24 percent. VTB actively participates in state-supported mortgage programs. 
Three airports to open in Yakutia by late 2023 
Three airports, due to open in the towns of Chersky, Ust-Nera and Neryungri in Yakutia before the year is out, are currently nearing completion under the Transport Infrastructure Modernization national project. 
A new runway is to start receiving aircraft in Chersky this coming November. This construction project began in November 2021, with a Mil Mi-8 helicopter carrying passengers to Chersky via the Srednekolymsk airport. 
The Neryungri airport is to receive a new terminal by the end of 2023. It will handle 300 passengers per hour. A local runway was reconstructed ahead of schedule in November 2021. 
There are plans to reconstruct a runway, a passenger terminal and a taxiway in Ust-Nera airport that did not receive any aircraft for over two months. It resumed operations on October 17. 
Runways at the Olyokminsk and Polyarny airports are to be reconstructed throughout 2024, and a new airport facility will be completed in Mirny. 
Earlier, Head of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev noted that there were plans to reconstruct the international terminal at the Yakutsk airport. Its top managers are currently finalizing a cost estimate and the project’s forms and records. 
Experts suggest stop using oil fuels in the Arctic 
The public council of the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment has proposed phasing out the use of oil fuel in the Arctic and replacing it with liquefied natural gas (LNG). 
"It would be advisable to gradually abandon the use of oil fuels in the Arctic. This measure would reduce harmful emissions and eliminate the risk of oil spills. The environmental and economic benefit of LNG in the Russian Arctic has already been confirmed and many large economic entities based their environmental strategy on the use of LNG," the council's message says. 
The council also highlighted the importance of inspecting Arctic facilities to monitor their compliance with all requirements. 
"The accidents are largely caused by the inadequate technical condition of the infrastructure, inaccurate evaluation of environmental risks by organizations and insufficient environmental safety measures and oversight by relevant agencies," the document says. 
How and why scientists will count polar bears, masters of the Arctic 
The current state of the polar bear population and its distribution in the Arctic is an issue that has been of concern to the specialists studying this region for decades. The polar bear is the largest representative of the family Ursidae and the order Carnivora. This bear is protected by the Russian and International Red Data Book. It is the top of the food chain in its habitat and an important indicator of the entire Arctic ecosystem. 
Today the world, especially the circumpolar countries, Canada, the US, Norway and Denmark, is drawn to polar bears. In the 1970s, Russia counted these predators every year, but in recent decades only expert estimates of the state of the polar bear population have been published based mostly on lair count: how many lairs, where they are and how many cubs. However, it is impossible to see the full picture with this method. 
"We have to know how many bears there are in different parts of the Arctic to see which processes the population is undergoing, how far the bears migrate, the structure of various groups, and the threats the bears are exposed to considering human activity and environmental processes. We need to create this kind of comprehensive monitoring," noted academician Vyacheslav Rozhnov, director of the Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution at the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
The first footprints in the snow 
On March 25, 2020, the Federal Supervisory Natural Resources Management Service (Rosprirodnadzor), the Arctic Initiatives Center NGO and the Clean Seas International Environmental Foundation signed an agreement to carry out air count tests of polar bears and marine mammals as well as to evaluate the overall environmental situation in the Russian Arctic. The work will result in a comprehensive plan to count polar bears in the Russian Federation in 2021-2024 as part of the Ecology national project. 
"We would like to see the real picture and the current state of the population, the numbers and the natural conditions of the polar bear's habitat. At the same time, we'll count other things like toxic waste sites, landfills, and garbage dumps. We'll also record updates on the ice situation. We have to see how effective this work is. When scientists provide the necessary information, our agency will be able to develop a system of state support measures," said Rosprirodnadzor Head Svetlana Radionova, who initiated this project. 
Ready to take off 
Air count tests are to be carried from an LA-8 amphibious aircraft designed for use in any latitude or climatic zone. The flight captain will be experienced test pilot, cosmonaut, Hero of Russia Valery Tokarev. The plane is to cover over 10,000 square kilometers in total. It will take off on August 1, 2020 in Amderma (Nenets Autonomous Area) and fly along eight routes to the northwest and northeast over the Kara Sea, and the Yamal and Taimyr peninsulas, plus the gulfs of Ob and Gyda. 
"The planes were modified with thermal cameras; clear blisters and special photo and video cameras were installed to film from low altitudes. You should always take the Arctic seriously, because the weather can be different; it changes often. For me, it is very interesting, both personally and professionally. We will do something useful for the country and for the next generation. If we can interest young people in the Arctic and get them dreaming of traveling there to see it for themselves, everyone will gain from this," said Valery Tokarev. 
Andrei Ivanov, head of the Ilyushin Il-14 renovation program and Mansur the bear's "daddy" will be the co-pilot. The expedition will include researchers from the Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution (leading engineers Dmitry Glazov and Yevgeny Nazarenko, engineer Gleb Pilipenko and senior researcher Ilya Mordvintsev), Head of the Environmental Monitoring Lab of the State Oceanographic Institute Maria Pogozheva, junior researcher of the Ecology Research Institute Angelina Gnedenko, staff from the Clean Seas International Environmental Foundation (General Director Vasily Bogoslovsky, his deputy Anna Subbotina and Special Projects Manager Olga Karelina), director of aerial filming studio Vladimir Filippov, and documentary filmmaker Leonid Kruglov. 
"It is true that no one has counted polar bears for a long time. There have been no comprehensive counts. We are carrying out a test count, but I hope we will manage to accomplish it. This involves a lot of work from officials, pilots, scientists, engineers, designers, and operators. As Viktor Konetsky once said: ‘It doesn't matter how you travel — rail or sail — it's a lot of work, responsibility and stamina of those who go forward," said Vasily Bogoslovsky, General Director of the Clean Seas International Environmental Foundation, honored worker of the naval and river fleet, and honored polar explorer. 
Famous name and important goals 
The project was named Master of the Arctic: this is what polar bears are often called. Scientists want to estimate the numbers and distribution of the polar bears, their state during the summer and fall, the age and gender structure of the population in the area they study and the parameters of their habitat, as well as evaluate the level of anthropogenic pollution and the role of natural and anthropogenic factors in the dynamics of the polar bear population. 
"In fact, the project was launched 10 years ago on Franz Josef Land, when the cleaning of the Arctic started. Without science, it is impossible to take any measures or see why certain processes take place in nature or what we can do to use negative processes for positive purposes. We had been thinking about establishing a system to monitor polar bears across the entire Arctic for a long time and started developing it. First, we studied space shots and tried looking for bears on the white ice. My colleagues managed to do this. We could have used this as a counting method. However, surface methods on land, ice and snow are also necessary, as well as flights in small planes and, I hope, with UAVs in the future, because you can't fly very far in small planes in the Arctic. We also have preliminary experience in counting from a private plane, but, of course, this is not enough," said academician Vyacheslav Rozhnov, director of the Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution. 
Rozhnov added that similar polar bear counts have been carried out in Alaska and Chukotka, and the first instrumental results that showed the real number of polar bears and seals (feeding base) in the region were recorded. According to Rozhnov, these data were extremely important because they can help forecast the future: knowing the size of the food base and the population's age structure will make it possible to predict whether the population will grow or decline. 
"At this stage, we do not plan direct contact with the bears, although this will also be part of our work: we tag the bears with special collars to monitor their movement, collect biological samples to see the processes within the population, to monitor their health and how stressed they are. This work is aimed at improving counting methods. In fact, this is very difficult. I hope we will receive interesting and important data that will serve as the initial step in creating and developing efficient tools for counting," Vyacheslav Rozhnov noted. 
Rozhnov also noted how important it was that businesses and the state support such research. 
Who will support this? 
General Director of the Arctic Initiatives Center Andrei Patrushev said that it was easier now to involve businesses in addressing environmental tasks in the Arctic because a lot has been done to create favorable economic conditions in the region. 
"The state adopted a strategy to preserve the polar bear population. In order to implement it, the collective efforts of the government, business, and public organizations are necessary. The Master of the Arctic project is a good step to begin this work," Patrushev noted. 
He also stressed that environmental responsibility must be taken into account when implementing economic projects: you can't harm the environment when you work there, only improve it. 
"The Arctic ecosystem is very sensitive to any impact from the outside, and due to its natural and geographical peculiarities any environmental problems will probably be transformed from a regional to a global issue. In this sense, the management of organizations that carry out or plan to carry out economic activities in the Arctic must understand that there are lots of possibilities for business, but it is unacceptable to use these opportunities without caring about preserving the unique Arctic flora and fauna. Yes, companies' expenses on environmental projects in the Arctic can be significant, but in the long run they will create a favorable social environment and therefore a sustainable profit," Andrei Patrushev added. 
Svetlana Radionova noted that Rosprirodnadzor could serve as a bridge between scientists and businesses in this issue. 
"We need to remind ourselves, and the state and businesses, how to behave in the Arctic to prevent the polar bear's habitat from being damaged. And, most importantly, we have to understand whether it's time to ring the alarm or we can still continue with support measures. This project was very easy for us: we quickly met with understanding from scientists, and we received public's support; then businesses were found that know why they're going to the Arctic, how they'll live there and for how long. These are not temporary business activities; they will explore the region kilometer by kilometer while preserving its fragile ecosystem. I am calling on these businesses to continue this program and make it an annual process," she said. 
Radionova also emphasized that the large, beautiful, and fragile Arctic is part of our common home. "We are just returning home to see what's going on there. At the same time, we can't forget that we are visiting the polar bear's home and we must adjust to its life, not the other way round. Let's respect the predator and try to save it from harm. I hope that this is just the first step and that we will make quick progress, like an escalator: we will get a clear picture of what we are and how our home looks and will be able to adopt adequate supervision measures and a policy to help this gracious and strong animal to live safely in its habitat and fully own it." 
Rosatom plans to recover six radioactive items from Arctic seabed 
It will take about eight years for Rosatom State Corporation to recover six of the most dangerous radiation hazardous items from the Russian Arctic seabed: parts of an icebreaker, nuclear submarines and reactors with spent nuclear fuel (SNF). In the view of experts such items is only a small portion of what can be found in the Russian Arctic area, however it is these items that account for 90 percent of the origin of radiation there. 
"According to the research, about 95 percent out of the 18,000 sunken items became under natural conditions safe: they are mud silted and the level of gamma rays around them correspond to natural background indicators. Much higher gamma-ray levels are typical of the remaining five percent (1,000 items) of them. Six items out of the 1,000 may be most dangerous: K-11, К-19 and К-140 submarines' reactors containing SNF, two whole submarines К-27 and К-159 and the SNF from the Lenin icebreaker's reactor, which discharge over 90 percent of the total radioactivity from the sunken objects," reported the company's press service. 
Noteworthy is that the problem of nuclear submarines, nuclear icebreakers and their components sunk in the Russian Arctic area has been in existence for many years, since the Soviet times. After the arms race, nuclear weapons and the nuclear fleet had to be disposed of. To this end several bases were set up in the Murmansk Region, specifically in the Andreyev Bay, in the Saida-Guba and near the Gremikha settlement. Emergencies occurred during the transportation of submarines: nuclear icebreakers and submarines heading for disposal and containing spent but still dangerous nuclear fuel sank. 
In the opinion of Rosatom experts, even the current extremely low possibility of radioactive leaks from such items could contribute to an inacceptable risk for the Arctic ecosystems. 
"We deem it necessary to take all six items, including К-159 and К-27 submarines, from the bottom. The pulling up of all six items from the seabed, their safe transportation to the disposal site and the preparations for long storage will take not less than eight years," noted the company press service. 
New Arctic Ocean is emerging due to water freshening 
According to experts from the University of Colorado Boulder, increasing amounts of fresh water have moved into the Arctic Ocean in the past 20 years. Researchers fear that if this trend continues, the desalination of the North Atlantic may disrupt ocean currents. 
Such events have happened before — in the 1970s and 1980s — but they were temporary, while now the process has become permanent. Scientists say that the share of fresh water in the Arctic Ocean has grown by 10 percent, that is by 10,000 cu km, since the 1990s. Forecasts suggest there is no stopping the freshening in the near decades. Even a radical cut in carbon emissions could considerably influence the process no earlier than in the second half of the century. 
The surface waters of the Arctic Ocean are already the freshest in the world because of high volumes of river runoff, but due to global warming, ice thawing in the Antarctic and along Greenland coasts, where the most serious desalination was recorded, has accelerated six times, and the fresh and sea waters mixing in the ocean is happening differently by the American and Russian coasts. As a result, the ecosystem in the region is drastically changing to create a practically "new ocean," scientists believe. 
In scientists' view, the first place where the fresh water export will grow in the coming decades as a result of climate change will be the Nares Strait between Greenland and Canada, a kind of northern gates between the Arctic and the other oceans. 
Ironically, such a process would mitigate the effect of global warming in Northern Europe for a while, but the disruption of ocean currents could have unfavorable consequences in the long term both for the climate and the entire ecosystem of the North Atlantic. 
Environmental landing force returns from Vilkitsky Island 
The Green Arctic, an inter-regional public environmental and sociological organization, has completed its expedition to Vilkitsky Island. 
It took a team of 18 volunteers 20 days (from July 13 to August 3) to clear the island of garbage dumps, rusty fuel drums and scrap metal. Specifically, they dismantled a 1.5-kilometer water pipeline (200 pipes), a 1.5-kilometer heating pipeline and some old structures. In all, 130 tons of scrap metal and 800 200-liter fuel drums have been prepared for removal. 
They have also conducted a bit of research, taking soil, water and sediment samples to monitor how the island's ecosystems are being regenerated. 
In 2019, 30 volunteers from different regions of Russia and other countries took part in an expedition to Vilkitsky Island, managing to clear 60 hectares within 30 days, collecting 200 tons of garbage and dismantling 20 dilapidated houses. 
According to specialists from the Russian Arctic Development Center, one more expedition will be needed to complete the cleaning, whereupon Vilkitsky Island can be included in a neighboring specially protected natural area and, like Bely Island, be open to research. 
Government coordinates public share in Arctic projects at 50% minus 1 share 
The draft law on liberalizing access to the continental shelf has been submitted to the federal executive authorities for coordination. 
"Following a meeting chaired by Deputy Prime Minister Yury Trutnev, it was decided to set Russia's share at 50 percent minus one share," a spokesperson for the Energy Ministry said. 
Earlier Trutnev claimed that the agencies had almost settled their differences over a draft law on liberalizing access to the Arctic shelf. The only remaining differences were those with the Energy Ministry and the Federal Antimonopoly Service (FAS). 
"The differences over the access liberalization draft law have been almost settled. There are two stumbling blocks left — with the Energy Ministry and the FAS. The Energy Ministry wants Russia's share to be set at 50 percent, while our proposal is 25 percent plus one share," he explained. 
According to earlier reports, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has drafted a law on liberalizing access to the continental shelf that grants private investors the right to obtain an unlimited number of subsurface allotments on the continental shelf under the condition that they provide financial guarantees. 
In this context, the Fund for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic is authorized to invite private investors to the shelf (organizing talks on an investment consortium or holding auctions if consortium negotiations fail). In addition, the government will set up a shelf development commission to coordinate the key stages of shelf projects. 
Each Russian entitled to an ‘Arctic hectare' under Far East Ministry program 
All Russians will be entitled to use a plot of land ​of ​up to one hectare in the country's Arctic zone free of charge. In the first six months of the program starting in 2021, it will be available only to local residents. 
After this period, residents of other regions in Russia will also have the opportunity. "I would say it is only fair to give priority to those who have been living in the Arctic for a long time," Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov said. 
He also noted that at this stage, the program will only involve the Murmansk and Arkhangelsk Regions, the Nenets and Yamal-Nenets autonomous areas, North Karelia, and a dozen individual municipalities in other northern regions, not the entire Arctic zone. According to Krutikov, there will be enough land for everyone. 
"There is so much of it (unused land) both in the Far East and in the Arctic that every resident of our country can easily have a hectare. Almost all regions of the Russian Federation supported the idea. And most importantly, we had support from regions where there will be high demand for land," the Deputy Minister noted. 
The regions will be allocating land close to cities for free distribution under the Arctic Hectare program, to facilitate the new users' access to infrastructure such as roads, electricity and sewage. 
According to Krutikov, the final decision will be up to the regions, but there are no buffer zones, as in the Far Eastern Hectare Program (no closer than 10 km from cities with a population of more than 50,000, or 20 km from cities with a population of more than 300,000). Beyond 10-30 km from towns there is no easy access via transport in the Arctic. 
The new holders can use their plots for housing construction or for doing business free of charge for five years. After the program-designated period expires, they will be able to apply for ownership or conclude a lease agreement to continue using the plot. 
Rosstandart approves a standard for roads in the polar areas 
The Federal Agency for Technical Regulation and Metrology (Rosstandart) has approved a national standard for winter roads and ice crossings in Russia's northern and polar areas. 
The new technical rules regulating the organization and upkeep of roads will apply for five or six months a year in the winter. The document has been drafted under the Safe and High-Quality Motor Roads national project, with account taken of the Basic Principles of Russian Federation State Policy in the Arctic for the Period to 2035. 
According to the deputy head of Rosstandart, Anton Shalaev, the "Arctic standards" will considerably speed up the introduction of promising technologies in the Arctic zone. 
"The R 58948-2020 State Standard that has no analogy in the world is yet another relevant Arctic standard along with 15 Oil and Gas Industry ones. Arctic Operations standards we approved in 2018," Anton Shalaev said. 
"We should adapt the existing requirements to the harsh Arctic and Antarctic conditions. This will usher in an epoch of technological cooperation where previously there were no clear rules of the game. Among other things, this will consolidate Russia's position in the context of competitive struggles for the region," Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade Alexei Besprozvannykh told the Arctic: Territory of Dialogue International Forum in 2019. 
The development of highways in the Extreme North is the Russian Federation's priority. Ice and snow roads are used in the North, particularly where there is no other road network. Traffic on the so-called winter roads usually starts in early December and adjourns in mid-April. For this reason, developing and introducing Arctic standards is a priority in terms of promoting national standardization in Russia. 
Russian scientists develop substance for removing Arctic oil spills 
Scientists from St. Petersburg have developed a substance for decomposing oil and petroleum derivatives. The new chemical agent also remains effective at low temperatures, and this makes it possible to remove oil spills in water and soils. 
The product was developed by specialists from the School of Technology and Power Engineering at St. Petersburg State University of Industrial Technologies and Design. This is a continuation of research into the development of long-duration mineral fertilizers based on phosphate glass. Its unique properties made it possible to create a process for making porous granules containing a biological preparation that can remove oil spills from water and soils. 
"The biological preparation has the following principle of operation: The cells of oil-destroying microorganisms are attached to porous glass phosphate granules. They decompose hydrocarbons and remove oil spills from water and soils. After completing their mission, the microorganisms perish and become part of a food chain for the native microflora," explains Alexei Khlynovsky, an assistant professor with the above-mentioned School of Technology and Power Engineering who co-authored the invention. 
He added that the strains of oil-destroying bacteria are registered in the National Scientific Research Institute of Plant Protection's collection of microorganisms. 
According to the Ministry of Education and Science, tests on the preparation have confirmed that the new forms contain 10-15 times more cell titers, or the amount of cells per unit of volume, compared to the currently available commercial brands. This makes it possible to use smaller amounts of the substance. 
The preparation has another advantage: It can work effectively in soils and water. The easy-to-use substance can also remove slicks without advance preparation and does not require skilled personnel. 
"The biological preparation demonstrated excellent results while decomposing petroleum derivatives in low temperature conditions in a water body polluted by aircraft fuel at the Savvatia facility in the Arkhangelsk Region. Purification efficiency reached 99.2 percent in 20 days," the ministry sources said, adding that this made the invention particularly important for the Arctic. 
The biological preparation is now undergoing field tests that involve various companies, including the facilities of Surgutneftegaz and the Irkutsk Oil Company. The Station for Cleaning Oil-Containing Waters in Kronstadt also carried out these tests on a land plot with a three-year-old oil spill. During the 12-month experiment, the content of petroleum derivatives in the soil plunged by 90 percent after the application of the first experimental batch of the preparation. 
Labytnangi to get biathlon and archery center 
A decision has been made to build a modern biathlon center with a roller ski course and an archery range in Labytnangi. The new facility is expected to improve the standard of training for athletes and provide for the hosting of multi-level competitions in the city, according to the head of the Municipal Administration Marina Treskova. 
The center is to comprise a specialized course with an archery range and a hotel for athletes. The archery range can also be used to train sharpshooters, power-lifters and weightlifters. There are also plans to build running tracks for summer biathlon events, grandstands for spectators, a booth for commentators, maintenance and storage facilities. 
Dmitry Artyukhov, Governor of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, praised the idea. "Biathlon is very popular in our region. The whole country knows the young women who have graduated from our Olympic Reserve School. This is a good foundation for future development. This is a large-scale and resource-intensive project. I believe that biathlon programs in Yamal and Labytnangi should receive additional support," he said. 
In the past few years, the city has obtained new sports facilities, including the multi-purpose Arktika and Start centers, the Avangard Ice Palace and the Polyarny fitness centerwith a swimming pool. An overhaul of the Kristall multi-purpose ice hockey stadium is to be completed soon. 
Sakha media company launches website in five indigenous languages 
Sakhapechat, a media company in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), launched the multilingual portal ilken.ru ahead of the International Day of the World's Indigenous Peoples. The news website is available in five northern indigenous languages — Even, Evenki, Yukaghir, Dolgan and Chukchi, and two official languages — Russian and Yakutian. 
"The concept of the website belongs to the editorial team of the Ilken newspaper, whose correspondents will be responsible for the website content. In addition to news, readers will be able to find ethnographic data, literature and other information in indigenous languages. Ilken.ru will eventually publish content in English as well," commented Sakhapechat CEO Nyurguyaana Struchkova to Ulus Media. 
Project creators hope that the website will contribute to promoting the languages, culture and traditional industries of the small indigenous groups of the North beyond Yakutia. The news content will be penned by the editorial team and local correspondents of the Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). 
News, reports, feature articles, essays, and photo and video stories will cover the latest in the world of the northern indigenous population and the activity of the organisations involved in the socioeconomic development of the Arctic and its residents. 
A diverse collection of creative writing by representatives of the indigenous peoples, both prominent and aspiring authors, will also go on the website. 
"Our country and the entire world are increasingly more interested in the Arctic and, therefore, its indigenous peoples. We hope that our website will be popular and find its audience. We are encouraging everybody interested in improving the life of the indigenous peoples in the Arctic to send us their stories, comments and feedback and to help us with the successful promotion of the portal," said Ilken Editor-in-Chief Valentin Khristoforov. 
Chukotka to create two specially protected areas 
Two specially protected natural areas of regional importance will be created in the Chukotka Autonomous Area on Cape Serdtse-Kamen and near Mount Dionysius. 
"The need to create these specially protected natural areas has been discussed in research and relevant circles for the past several years. Their establishment will move Chukotka up in the ranking of Russian regions in terms of the amount of specially protected areas, and also will make our small contribution to Russia's fulfillment of its obligations as part of the UNESCO/UN convention on the preservation of the biodiversity of the Arctic and the planet," said representatives of the Chukotka branch of the Russian Geographical Society. 
The future protected area on Cape Serdtse-Kamen will cover 4 square kilometers and will be located near Kengiskyn Cove in the Chukchi Sea. A nature reserve will be created there to preserve the unique site where 90% of the Pacific walrus population that inhabits the waters of Chukotka and Alaska gathers in the fall. 
The second specially protected natural area will be created around Mount Dionysius in the Anadyr District. It will cover 36 square kilometers and will protect the nesting sites of peregrine falcons and gyrfalcons, as well as the routes of the Naumann's thrush, Ross's gull, great gray shrike and other threatened birds. These areas are also home to many rare and threatened plants. 
At the initiative of the regional branch of the Russian Geographical Society with the support of the Chukotka government, the region will hold a research and technical survey involving researchers and experts on specially protected areas in Chukotka and the Arctic, as well as employees of the Institute of Biological Problems of the North, the Marine Mammal Council and WWF Russia. 
Work is in progress to create Land of the Spoon-billed Sandpiper Nature Park in the southwest of the Anadyr District. Plans call for creating the specially protected area near three villages in the region — Alkatvaam, Meinypilgyno and Khatyrka. 
Russian and US border guards patrol the Bering Sea 
Members of the Russian FSB Border Guard Service and the US Coast Guard have carried out joint exercises patrolling the state border in the Bering Sea waters. 
The patrol was performed by the Russian ship Sakhalin and the American ship Alex Haley. The crew members performed radio communication drills, including coordination with a deck helicopter, and practiced using the international code of signals during joint maneuvering. 
"No violators were spotted fishing illegally for aquatic biological resources in the area along the demarcation line of the two countries' waters during the joint patrol of the area," the press service of the FSB Border Directorate for the eastern Arctic region said. 
The Alaska and Kamchatka border guards signed an agreement on cooperation in protecting aquatic biological resources in the convention area in 1996. The cooperation involves efforts to prevent the violation of fishing rules, control over customs declaration of fishing catches, and protection of the Northern Sea Route between Chukotka and Alaska. 
The FSB Border Directorate for the Eastern Arctic Region patrols more than 20,000 km of state border, or one-third of the entire border of Russia. 
Small Arctic lakes reveal increased concentrations of pollutants 
An analysis of data on the quality of water and concentrations of a range of elements in small lakes in the Arctic has been presented by the Vernadsky Institute of Geochemistry and Analytical Chemistry of the Russian Academy of Sciences and University оf Tyumen (UTMN). The lakes were on the Kola Peninsula (European Russia), the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area (west Siberia), and the Norilsk Region (east Siberia). 
According to scientists, aquatic systems are collectors of environmental pollutants and they reflect changes in the geochemical cycles of elements. Small lakes located far from direct pollution sources are accumulators of elements that are dispersed in the environment and indicators of air diffused metals. 
The researchers generalized the results of the chemical tests of water from 99 small lakes measuring between 0.4 and 20 square kilometers and located in the tundra and in the forest tundra. Of these 35 were in the Kola Peninsula, 52 in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, and 12 in the Norilsk Region in the relative vicinity of the industrial center. Water samples were taken during the water cooling period in the fall, when at +4°С chemical composition indicators level out in terms of depth. 
The tests showed that the water chemistry in the lakes has both general and specific characteristics related to the geochemical structure of the regions in question and different levels of human impact. The highest concentration of dissolved solids was found in water from the Norilsk Region as a consequence of the lakes' proximity to a large industrial zone. Water samples from the Yamal-Nenets and Kola regions vary greatly in terms of dissolved solids and pH values. There are over-acidified lakes with low pH values, highly transparent water and high sulfate content. Swampy bodies of water have water of high color. 
To assess anthropogenic impact, a variable has been calculated to gauge the enrichment of water with uncharacteristic components, such as various metals and other heavy elements with a toxic effect that can be classified as pollutants. The highest values were obtained for the Norilsk Region, where waters contain much rhenium, nickel, vanadium, copper, cadmium, molybdenum and antimony. Waters in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area are enriched with lead, vanadium, arsenic, antimony and particularly molybdenum. In the Kola Peninsula, the highest values were recorded for nickel, cadmium, arsenic, antimony and selenium, elements that reflect the region's industrial impact. 
Although the toxic element levels are within the reference ranges, the studies point to the existence of a global trend for more elements in Arctic waters that eventually get involved in biogeochemical cycles. 
"The indicators must constantly be controlled, because these chemical substances can accumulate in living organisms and have a toxic effect," Director of the UTMN Institute of Chemistry Tatyana Kremlyova said. 
Although this process can be a consequence of changes in the natural migration of elements or that of the geochemical specifics of their aggregation, researchers believe that the main reason behind the increased content of these elements is air pollution caused by long-distance diffusion of smoke emissions from copper and nickel smelters, mining-and-metallurgical integrated works, oil and gas fields, and other industrial businesses. It must be noted that all the regions under study are major mineral-producing centers. 
Over the past century, the anthropogenic introduction of elements into the environment has increased dramatically all over the world. The advanced countries of Europe and North America have reduced the emissions of metals during the last few decades. But the environment in many regions located far from industrial centers has accumulated certain amounts of metals and other heavy elements. For example, increased concentrations of some dangerous substances, such as quicksilver, cadmium and lead, have been detected in the snow cover in Greenland and the High Arctic. 
"The Arctic regions are particularly vulnerable to an increased content of metals in the environment. This can be explained by a low level of mass and energy exchanges in the cold latitudes. The food chains are short here and endemic organisms are highly sensitive to unfavorable impact," Dr. Kremlyova summed up. 
The study was carried out with support from the Russian Foundation for Basic Research, Grant 18-05-60012. The results were published in the article "Geochemical Regularities of the Diffusion of Elements in Arctic Lakes" in the journal, Geochemistry. 
Aerial lift bridge to span Anadyr Estuary in Chukotka 
A 7.6-km all-season aerial lift bridge will link the towns of Anadyr and Ugolniye Kopi in Chukotka. 
"The development and design work are to start in the third quarter of 2021. Considering the remoteness of the area, the unique climate conditions and the seasonal nature of construction operations, the bridge is expected to open in the winter of 2023/2024," reports the press service of the Russian Ministry for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic. 
Anadyr Estuary divides Anadyr and Ugolniye Kopi, another larger town. An ice crossing links them in winter, and helicopters, skimming boats and hovercraft operate here during other seasons. Over 60,000 people cross the estuary each year, 80 percent by plane. 
Leonid Petukhov, General Director of the Far Eastern Investment and Export Support Agency, said the bridge would be open to traffic all year. According to the plan, with an average speed of five meters per second, it will take 25 minutes for a one-way trip. It will be possible to carry up to 280 people and up to 20 metric tons of cargo every hour. 
"We are ready to support the project. An agreement was signed today. The project is a concession, and we have obtained principled support from state agencies and financial institutions. Kanatniye Aeromosty Co., the contractor, wants to attract investment for shareholding capital and is looking for partners," Petukhov noted. The project is estimated at 2.7 billion rubles. 
Roman Sementsov, Director for Transport and Logistics Infrastructure at the Far Eastern Investment and Export Support Agency, noted that a preferential regime for priority development areas, stipulating tax exemptions and administrative preferences, can support the project. In this connection, the agency plans to help the company draft a package of documents for requesting resident status from the Far East Development Corporation. 
Russia develops unmanned heavy-duty helicopter for the Arctic 
Russian engineers from the Rus design bureau have developed an unmanned helicopter to haul up to 80 kg of cargo for up to 200 km in the Far North. The R-2200 will be able to land on unstable surfaces such as a ship's deck or a moving cargo platform. 
The designers note that 80 kg is the average weight of equipment for oil production and geological exploration, and such cargoes account for most of the traffic in hard-to-reach regions of the North, Siberia and the Far East. Most of these areas can only be accessed by air. Also, items like medicines or research equipment often need to be delivered as quickly as possible. 
Helicopter flights are expensive, costing about 70,000 ̶ 150,000 rubles per hour of flight. Consequently, there was a need for a new cost-effective delivery vehicle that could operate efficiently and reliably in the North. 
The drone is just under 4 m long and about 1.5 m wide, and it only costs 20,000 rubles per hour to hire it, which looks like a significant saving compared to a conventional helicopter. The smaller the load, the longer the helicopter can stay in the air. With 80 kg on board, it will be able to fly 80 km, and with 60 kg, up to 200 km. 
It is expected that the new drone will also be used for exploration and prospecting — for example, to draw up a preliminary mineral occurrence map or assess the ice situation in the sea. 
Expedition to Chelyuskin wreck site successfully completed 
Scientists and exploration divers inspected the wreck site of the legendary SS Chelyuskin in the Chukchi Sea, according to the High Seas Rescue Service of the Federal Agency for Sea and Inland Water Transport (Rosmorrechflot). Expedition members wanted to update the wreck site's coordinates and create a 3D model of the steam ship. 
They operated from the rescue ship Lazurit, with divers using the latest search equipment to identify and inspect the ship. They took photos and shot video. The expedition members paid tribute to the sunken steamship before leaving. 
According to the explorers, no one has seriously addressed the history of the Chelyuskin disaster. Several diving expeditions were carried out in Soviet times, but they had less advanced equipment back then. "We will provide the academic-historical community with plenty of data," expedition member Andrei Krasnobayev said. 
The expedition is part of a project by high seas engineering company Fertoing to preserve Russia's historical maritime heritage. It involved Russia's academic and exploration communities, including the World Ocean Museum, the Exploration Diving Club, the High Seas Rescue Service, and the Alexander Solzhenitsyn House of Russia Abroad. 
The steamship was named in honor of Russian seafarer and Arctic explorer Semyon Chelyuskin and drifted for almost five months in the Arctic. It sank on February 13, 1934 in the Chukchi Sea during a polar night, after it was caught in an area of ice compression and its hull was crushed. 
In all, 104 people, including ten women and two children, found themselves on an ice floe and set up tents there. A two-month effort to rescue the ship's crew and passengers ended on April 13, 1934 and was the first successful large-scale Arctic rescue operation in history. 
Seven polar aviation pilots who accomplished the impossible received the most honorary national title of Hero of the Soviet Union, which was instituted to mark their heroic feat. 
Plaque honoring polar researcher Vladimir Rusanov installed on Novaya Zemlya 
A memorial plaque in honor of Vladimir Rusanov, an Arctic explorer, was installed on the coast of Yuzhny Island in the Matochkin Strait of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago. This year marks the polar researcher's 145th birthday. The plaque was funded by benefactors Maria and Alexei Belov. 
The latest Arctic expedition to the islands of the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago includes representatives of the Northern Fleet, the 12th Main Directorate of the Russian Defense Ministry, the Russian Geographical Society (RGS), Russian Arctic National Park and research institutes. 
One of the expedition units will go around Severny Island of the archipelago, retracing the route of Vladimir Rusanov, who was the first Russian researcher to navigate that area in 1910 on the Dmitry Solunsky motorized sailing vessel. 
"We would like to recreate the route of Rusanov and, hopefully, find its traces. Vladimir Rusanov was an outstanding Russian scientist who did a lot for Arctic development. Any new discovery linked with his name will allow us to learn more about the events of those years," said Sergei Churkin, the scientific head of the expedition. "Symbolically, specialists from the Central Testing Ground of the Russian Federation will take part in the expedition. The Motherland entrusted them with continuing the scientific traditions laid down by Rusanov on the archipelago," he added. 
After the unveiling ceremony, the researchers sailed to the Melky Bay, at the coast of which they inspected the condition of the wintering hut and the grave of Avgust Tsivolka, who served as a warrant officer of the navigator corps and took part in three expeditions to Novaya Zemlya. The researchers found household items and fragments of a wooden boat with nailed initials and swastika. 
The expedition then moved to the Krestovaya Bay to wait for a storm to pass and plans in several days to reach Cape Zhelaniya, where it will install a memorial sign in honor of the 175th anniversary of the Russian Geographical Society. 
New plant species discovered on Wrangel Island 
Climatologists found evidence of a new plant on Wrangel Island (Chukotka Autonomous Area) during research on global climate change in conservation areas in the Russian Arctic zone, the WWF Russia press service reports. 
The scientists spent three months at the Wrangel Island Nature Reserve. During that time they collected a large amount of data on the changes in plant life and characteristics of soil, permafrost and water bodies. The experts explored the snow cover and fast ice on the sea with quadcopters. They also installed special sensors in the main observation areas which will record changes in temperature throughout the year. 
The collected data are still being analyzed but some facts show directly that climatic change has resulted in changes in the look of the Arctic region. Thus, new plant species unusual for this climatic zone are evident on the island now. For example, the scientists discovered butterbur thickets of considerable area and thickness, up to half a kilometer in area. This plant had never been found on the island before. 
Scientists believe that the main reason for the change is solifluction (runoff of soil saturated with water on the frozen surface of ice-cemented slopes — editor's note) and soil heaving (terrain changes caused by the freezing of rocky earth which increases their volume due to ice formation — editor's note), which gradually changes the structure of soil layers developed over many years and completely changes the vegetation cover. 
According to the Director of the Wrangel Island Nature Reserve, Alexander Gruzdev, the singularity of the island is in the fact that it is the northernmost outpost in the east of the continent and is under the influence of both Arctic and continental air masses, so the influence of climate change on ecosystems is easy to see here. 
Experts to study the effects of ship noise on whales off Chukotka 
Research fellows at Moscow State University's Faculty of Biology together with experts from Beringia National Park will study the effects of ship noise on whales. It is necessary to conduct this research because of the development of the Northern Sea Route and active navigation in the Arctic. 
Experts will determine the areas where whales gather and monitor the groups of feeding humpback whales. Then they will use a special speaker to make ship noise and see how the whales react to it. The project will be carried out with the support of WWF. 
"When a whale is under stress, its breathing rate intensifies, it surfaces and spouts water more often, and tries to get away from the source of the noise. By observing these behavioral reactions, we will see how the whales are affected. In the future, it will help us prevent the negative impact on the whales when developing the Northern Sea Route in case vessel routes cross the summer feeding grounds of the whales," said Ivan Fedutin, a research fellow at the MSU Faculty of Biology and project participant. 
According to Olga Filatova (D.Sc. in Biology), the expedition leader, ship noise causes background stress in whales and weakens their immune system. Whales have a hard time hearing each other and finding food. 
"Gray whales are less affected by noise because they eat what they can find on the bottom. But humpback whales need to hear the sounds of fish or seagulls," Filatova said. 
Another objective of this field season is to establish relations with the marine mammal hunters in the village of Novoye Chaplino. Experts plan to examine the killed whales and measure the stress hormones and pollution levels in their system. 
US government approves oil drilling on Alaska's northern shore 
The US President Donald Trump administration has approved a plan for oil and gas drilling in Alaska's Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR). However, the drilling will begin only in a few years. 
According to Governor of Alaska Michael Dunleavy, opening up the region for oil drilling will create jobs and boost the state's economy, which is heavily dependent on the oil sector. 
Previously, the US Congress passed legislation that aims to make drilling in the region environmentally safe. 
"Congress gave us a very clear directive here, and we have to carry out that directive consistent with the directive that they gave, and consistent with the procedural statutes," said US Secretary of the Interior David Bernhardt. "I have a remarkable degree of confidence that this can be done in a way that is responsible, sustainable and environmentally benign." 
Drilling will be allowed on 1.56 million acres (more than 6.300 square kilometers) of the refuge's coastal plain on the northern shore of Alaska along the Beaufort Sea. 
According to the US Geological Survey, the coastal plain in ANWR may contain between 4.3 and 11.8 billion barrels of recoverable oil reserves. 
Sailing ship Sedov sets out for Arctic expedition from Vladivostok 
The world's largest steel barque, the Sedov, has set sail from Vladivostok on an expedition along the Northern Sea Route. This will be its first Arctic voyage for the past 150 years. 
"Our goal is to pay tribute to Georgy Sedov whose name the barque carries. The captain dedicated his entire life to Arctic exploration. It is important to train a qualified crew who would have a proper understanding of the operations in the Arctic and its harsh conditions. As Polar explorers like to say, may the ship travel through clear waters and have the guidance of the North Star. We wish you fair winds and following seas," said Deputy Head of the Federal Agency for Fishery Pyotr Savchuk at the ceremony marking the start of the voyage. 
Being a member of the round-the-world expedition marking 200 years since the discovery of the Antarctic and the 75th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War, the Russian barque arrived at the Vladivostok Port last Friday, for trainee crew rotation and replenishment of supplies. The ship is now home-bound to its port of registration in Kaliningrad. 
It is expected that the Sedov will briefly make a stopover in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky to stock up. An icebreaker will accompany the ship to ensure its safety during its voyage through the Arctic. 
The Federal Agency for Fishery earlier decided to organize an additional one-month long tour due to the fact that most of the Sedov's foreign port calls had been cancelled amidst the spread of the novel coronavirus. Extra time at sea allows trainees to achieve more sailing experience and to gain the required qualifying hours. 
Autonomous walrus observation point established on the Greater Oransky Islands 
Equipment for a new Atlantic walrus observation point was unloaded and installed on Eastern Greater Oransky Island of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago. The ship Mikhail Somov delivered the house for scientists as part of the annual summer navigation. 
The observation point will be located in the southern cluster of Russian Arctic National Park. It is an autonomous house for four people with the necessary amenities for cooking, rest and work. Scientists will be able to continuously monitor walrus rookeries. Previously, their work schedule was highly dependent on the current weather conditions on the island. 
"It is very important to organize the continuous long-term observation of walruses in order to study changes in numbers, the timing of gathering in rookeries, the influence of various factors on the animals, and their relationship with polar bears. The observation point is needed for tagging walruses, and studying their behavior and diet. All this requires conditions for scientists," said Ivan Mizin, deputy director of Russian Arctic National Park. 
In turn, project coordinator of the WWF Russia Barents branch Margarita Leskova emphasized that the entire international community is focusing on the Arctic, so it is necessary to understand, among other things, what is happening with the population of Atlantic walruses, which humans almost exterminated a couple of centuries ago. "Thanks to the stationary observation point, every year we will be able to see if all is well with the walruses, and we will be able to take action in time," she added. 
Along with the autonomous house, camera traps were also brought to the Oransky Islands, which will help scientists monitor walruses and their behavior. 
Expert: The Arctic has great military-strategic significance 
Mikhail Popov, Deputy Secretary of the Russian Federation's Security Council, was interviewed by an Interfax correspondent and noted that geopolitical, geostrategic and economic interests of leading global powers were now clashing with each other in the Arctic. This is also linked with the fact that melting ancient Arctic sea-ice formations make it easier to access the Arctic's immensely rich potential and opened up colossal prospects for developing mineral deposits. "The Arctic also has great military-strategic significance. Its economic possibilities are determined by its huge hydrocarbon reserves and international trade opportunities. We are talking here about the Northern Sea Route in this connection," he added. 
According to Popov, Russia which is establishing and expanding the Northern Sea Route's infrastructure will further spur on the development of the Arctic and sub-Arctic territories, as well as the Far East. The Arctic development process will make it possible to expand Russia's share in the volume of global trade. This will also augment ground-based transport mainlines and will also reduce the load on them. Moreover, this will open up prospects for expanding Russia's role in Asia Pacific trade operations. 
"Because of this situation, Russia, as well as Denmark, Canada, Norway, the United States, Iceland, Sweden and Finland, are trying to take advantage of the new Arctic opportunities. China and a few other countries as well, located far away from the region, are becoming more and more interested in the region's resources and strategic potential. The United States is striving to keep an eye on Russia's Northern Fleet all the time, as well as its activities in the Arctic. For this purpose, reconnaissance flights are being conducted; US Navy warships and submarines together with other NATO navies are also reaching into the vicinity. Research ships are also involved in reconnaissance missions," the expert added. 
The Deputy Security Council Secretary also pointed out that the US Defense Department's Arctic Strategy contested Russian approaches toward prospects for developing the Northern Sea Route. The Pentagon believes that this route should be turned into an international transport route, not covered by Russian jurisdiction. Germany's Arctic Policy Guidelines noting the need to internationalize the Extreme North's transport mainlines and all types of local resources are consonant with this document. Under a document called China's Arctic Policy, the People's Republic of China acts as an important regional player and a near-Arctic state. In effect, China sees itself as a state located close to the Arctic Circle. Beijing is also focusing on the creation of the Ice Silk Road, an economic corridor that would link it with European countries via Arctic seas. 
The expert believes that, due to the current situation, it is necessary to implement an entire range of measures to guarantee the security of the Russian Arctic. The national maritime policy in this area is determined by the exceptional significance of ensuring the Russian Navy's unimpeded access to the Atlantic and Pacific oceans. It is also determined by the rich resources of Russia's exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, the Northern Sea Route's growing significance for sustainable development and the Northern Fleet's decisive role in defending the country's high-seas and oceanic approaches. 
He also recalled that Russia's Marine Doctrine, approved by the President of Russia in 2015, remained topical. The Doctrine determines various guidelines of the long-term national marine policy and activities of the high-seas. This concerns functional and regional aspects of its implementation. 
"The Marine Doctrine is a highly important and large-scale document <…> and an outstanding example of a systemic approach toward implementing the marine policy and organizing high-seas activities, including its functional and regional aspects," the expert added. "Functional aspects imply naval activities, as well as merchant marine, fishing activities, studying the world's oceans and a number of other marine activities. Regarding regional aspects, the doctrine encompasses virtually all of the world's oceans." 
Popov also recalled that the Northern Fleet was methodically developing and studying the Arctic. In early August 2020, its ships launched the ninth Northern Sea Route expedition in cooperation with hydrographic vessels and coast guard ships of the Border Service and Atomflot icebreakers. The event marks the 75th anniversary of Victory in the Great Patriotic War. The Navy' Hydrographic Service has conducted comprehensive research in remote areas of the Laptev Sea, the Barents, Kara and East Siberian seas near such Arctic archipelagos as Franz Josef Land, Novaya Zemlya, the New Siberian Islands, as well as near the Medvezhy, Wrangel and Herald islands. Over 40 new geographic objects were discovered and described during these expeditions. 
In 2017-2019, specialists worked in coastal waters and on the Russian Arctic coast. They specified the location of the shoreline and updated state marine navigational charts and maps. Moreover, they created a unique digital bathymetric database of the depths in the Arctic Basin's central section. 
The expert also added that it was necessary to upgrade the marine infrastructure, primarily that of the seaports. "It should be noted that we need to protect the environment. There are cases when port authorities are violating the requirements of nature conservation legislation. Violations in handling production and consumption waste show that the port services are not adequately monitoring the circulation of port-produced waste. High-seas oil spills remain a major problem because ships and vessels do not have enough separators for processing oil-containing waters, as well as systems for accumulating and dispensing oil-containing waters. Additionally, their crews are violating the refueling regulations. Quite a few research ships have to be repaired or replaced. Progress is being made in this field," Popov noted. 
Summing up, the Deputy Security Council Secretary said: "Russia is conducting large-scale and diverse maritime activities. They have a heroic and instructive past, a present filled with fruitful events and a future whose foundations are laid already today." 
NArFU to train specialists in Arctic political science 
On September 1, 2020, Northern (Arctic) Federal University (NArFU) will launch the bachelor's program Political and Social Communications in the Russian Arctic, as part of the Political Sciences and Regional Studies track. Eighteen people have already enrolled in the new program. 
The program is designed to train personnel who are capable of providing expert and analytical support to projects to develop Arctic territories. Graduates should be able to prepare analytical materials for developing research and management projects and participate in assessing the effectiveness of organizational efforts. 
Students will also study social communications — working with the media and preparing texts and visual materials for public and interactive events. "This is public policy — graduates will focus on collective problem solving and building communication between the public and private sectors, civil society and public groups for the effective allocation of resources of all participants in certain processes," said Alexander Tamitsky, director of the NArFU Higher School of Social Sciences and Humanities and International Communication. 
According to Tamitsky, for several years there have been incoming requests from the authorities of the northern regions to train political science specialists who would know the specifics of the Russian Arctic. "Many fairly large companies and corporations engaged in oil, gas, and mineral resources production are located in the region," Tamitsky said. "Interaction with the indigenous population is a necessity. Such a dialogue should be established taking into account certain environmental risks. In this regard, the Arctic is a unique region, as there are no other places in Russia or the entire world, for that matter, where human economic activity can pose such risks for the environment." 
In addition, now the Russian Arctic is increasingly attracting the interest of other states, including non-Arctic ones, and there is a need for specialists who are well-versed in Arctic geopolitics. Students will study the history and modern international political processes in the Arctic, demographic and migration processes in the Russian Arctic zone, international regional ties of Russia's Arctic regions, their public and confessional policies, and interaction between businesses and authorities in the Russian Arctic. 
According to the program organizers, its graduates will be able to work in government agencies, at enterprises and public organizations as experts and research analysts who help establish contacts between all these agencies. The task of Arctic political scientists will also be to make assessments and develop managerial solutions. "This refers to matters of migration, interethnic relations and issues of small indigenous peoples within the borders of the Russian Arctic zone and the Arctic in general," added Alexander Tamitsky. 
Arctic island discovered by youngsters to be put on maps 
Eight Russian schoolchildren have discovered an island in Vilkitsky Bay near the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago's Severny Island. The geographical discovery was made remotely: the young people noticed the new island as they were processing satellite images. Last July, when the ice connecting Severny Island to a retreating glacier collapsed, it was revealed that a piece of land earlier thought to be a cape is a separate island. 
The new island has the dimensions of 410 m by 200 m and an area of 5.6 ha. It is 27 m high. A Northern Fleet expedition that recently passed through Vilkitsky Bay near the western shore of Severny Island already confirmed that the island does really exist. 
"It is not a secret that the Arctic is becoming warmer, glaciers are retreating and land is being exposed where ice once used to be. The youngsters did discover an actual island, even if small, that must be put on navigation maps. Without a doubt, it is an important geographical discovery," the Press Service of the Russian Geographical Society reported citing Chief of Staff of the Northern Fleet, Colonel Sergei Churkin. 
The young discoverers represent several Russian regions and are members of the RiskSat project group specializing in Earth remote sensing research and training. The young people dedicated their discovery to the memory of pilot and cosmonaut German Titov who would have turned 85 this year. 
Similar discoveries were made by schoolchildren in the past thanks to satellite image research. For example, in 2016 youngsters discovered an island by the Wiese Glacier and in 2017, by the Vilkitsky Yuzhny Glacier. Both are located near Novaya Zemlya. In 2019, young scientists spotted a new island in the Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago. 
Mammoth remains found at the Novoportovskoye field 
While working at an open pit at Gazprom Neft's Novoportovskoye field in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, a group of oil workers found part of a mammoth skeleton — a tusk and skull bones. 
The archaeological find remains at the field, as scientists recommended, while the employees continue searching for other fragments. 
"Finding the remains of mammoth fauna is always an exciting event in the scientific world. Their study brings new knowledge about the ecology of the ice age giants and the possible reasons for their extinction. The expansion of the scientific and industrial presence of humans in the Arctic contributes to the fact that such finds are becoming more common, being the property of science," said Dmitry Frolov, director of the Arctic Research Center. 
For his part, Head of the Yamal District Andrei Kugayevsky stressed: "This is good news for the scientists of our region, and we hope that through joint efforts we can find more answers to the questions that history has left for us." 
Yevgeny Zakharov, director of organizational affairs of Gazpromneft-Yamal, also promised that the company would continue searching for mammoth remains to help scientists in their important work of studying the history of the region. 
In fact, this is the second such find in Yamal in recent months. In July, on the shore of Lake Pechevalavato, a local resident found the remains of a mammoth, which scientists named Tadibe in honor of the fisherman who found him. The age of the animal was determined to be about 15-20 years. 
School students from Northern indigenous peoples are more stress-resistant and self-sufficient 
High school students from northern small indigenous peoples are more stress-resistant, want to behave more maturely, and are more motivated and independent compared with their non-indigenous peers, according to research from the University of Tyumen (UTMN). 
The research aimed at determining the subjective grounds for the formation of personal preparedness to choose a profession among high school students studying and living in the Arctic. Psychologists and teachers took part in the research, which was held at high schools in Nadym (Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area) and Tyumen among students aged 14-17. 
The control group included 103 high school students: 49 boys and 54 girls. The experimental sample included 16 representatives of the indigenous peoples of the north (6 boys and 10 girls), all Nenets. 
During the research, the following indicators of preparedness to choose a profession were assessed: 
1) independence; 2) awareness; 3) decision making; 4) planning; 5) emotional response. 
"High school students from the indigenous peoples of the north are subjectively more resistant to harsh living conditions than non-indigenous students. Of course, preparedness to choose a profession is one such difficult moment," said Galina Kukhterina, senior lecturer at the UTMN Department of Psychology and Children's Pedagogics. 
According to Kukhterina, indigenous students' readiness for professional self-determination shows they are more independent and optimistic about choosing their professions than their non-indigenous peers. They tend to see the need to choose a profession more positively. 
Several indicators of students' subjective well-being were also assessed: 
1) tension and sensibility; 2) signs of psycho-emotional symptoms; 3) mood changes; 4) significance of social environment; 5) health self-assessment; 6) satisfaction with daily activities. 
The results show that the general indicators of tension and sensitivity, psycho-emotional symptoms, and satisfaction with daily activities among the indigenous Nenets are lower than those of their peers. At the same time, high school students living in the Arctic regions show higher indicators of mood change, significance of social environment, and health self-assessment. 
According to the teachers, all of this may be a result of specific living conditions in a harsh climate and thus the necessity to grow up earlier. 
"Young representatives of the indigenous peoples of the north are a valuable resource for the development of the Arctic zone, because they are motivated for early professional self-determination while also having survival skills and are better suited to living in extreme climate conditions," said Lyudmila Fedina. 
According to the researchers, these data will help enhance the understanding of the influence of relationships between personal characteristics and subjective well-being on preparedness to choose a career by graduates of secondary schools in the Arctic, and they will also build up a more accurate and targeted system of career guidance support for high school students. The state's care about the safety and prosperity of the indigenous peoples of the north also means preparing teenagers and high school students for the conditions of a changing world, whose professional self-determination must be aimed at preserving national identity and ethnic culture. 
Sergei Borgoyakov, leading analyst at the Education Development Center of the Russian Academy of Sciences, notes: 
"The education system and stronger focus on the psychological and pedagogic accompaniment of these students' social and professional self-determination play an essential role in the implementation of two opposing vectors in the development of these people: ensuring that the young generation can integrate into today's society while forming sound skills for living in an extreme climate, and preserving and developing their original cultural identity." 
Detailed research results are published in Education and Science. 
Yamal scientists find remains of ancient settlements and pieces of Bronze Age ceramics 
Archeologists from the Arctic Research Scientific Center found the remains of a wooden structure at the Salekhard 4 Settlement. Supposedly they are from a Bronze Age dwelling, with pieces of ceramics and stone tools. 
"During this field season, scientists made a small excavation, revealing the remains of a wooden structure: apparently, the edge of a Bronze Age dwelling. The main part of the dwelling has not survived since the landmark was partially destroyed in the middle of the 20th century during the construction of the pier of an oil depot. Fragments of ceramics from the Bronze Age and the Middle Ages and stone tools such as knives, knife-like plates and arrowheads were added to the collection of finds. Scientists will donate them to the Shemanovsky Regional Museum and Exhibition Complex. Soil samples will be sent to laboratories for further evaluation," the report on the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area's website reads. 
According to the archeologists, the uncovered dwellings belong to the Aeneolithic Yasun culture, which moved northward at some point in its history and changed to other types of economic activities due to living in a different climate. Semisedentary hunters and fishermen built long-term dwellings in the south of the Yamal Peninsula and started hunting wild reindeer. This hypothesis is confirmed by animal bones, as well as completely different types of stone tools, now made for hunting and processing animal skins. In order to prove this theory, archaeologists plan to continue studying ancient landmarks in the Yerkutayakha River basin and, in the future, start looking for new evidence of the migration of these ancient people from south to north. 
The experts will also be able to use these data to make a prognosis on how the climate and ecosystems compare with today's conditions. The research will give the archeologists new information on why people settled around the Arctic. 
It is noted that this field work was carried out as part of a Russian Foundation for Basic Research grant aimed at reconstructing ancient paleoecological conditions. Yamal scientists gathered samples of soil in cultural layers that range from Aeneolithic until today. Paleoecological research will help to form a better understanding of the development of the traditional economies and the geographic range of the ancient peoples that settled in the Arctic. 
Krasnoyarsk Territory and Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area enter ranking of regions with the most polluted air 
FinExpertiza has identified the Russian regions with the most polluted air based on enterprises' reports on pollutant emissions, information on the number of motor vehicles in the region, taking into account the category, fuel class and engine types, and data on diesel fuel use for railway transport provided by Rosprirodnadzor (Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources). 
According to the report, one Russian resident accounts for an average of about 155 kg of harmful emissions per year. This figure ranges from 23 kg to 1.6 metric tons, depending on the region, experts say. About 75 percent of all emissions come from enterprises, while cars produce 25 percent. As for industrial production, metallurgy creates the most air pollution, with 3.7 million metric tons of emissions per year, or 21 percent of all emissions from enterprises. 
The top 10 Russian regions with the most polluted air include two Arctic regions — the Krasnoyarsk Territory, where metallurgy prevails among other industries (first place), and the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area (fifth place). The list also includes the Kemerovo, Sverdlovsk, Irkutsk, Chelyabinsk and Orenburg regions, the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area, the Republic of Bashkortostan and the Krasnodar Territory. 
"The distribution of emissions quite accurately reflects the areas where the largest producers of non-ferrous metals, petrochemical products and thermal power, operating on dirty fuels, are concentrated," explained Maxim Khudalov, head of the sustainable development risk assessment group of the Analytical Credit Rating Agency (ACRA). 
He also noted that the new cycle of economic development will be linked with the development of technologies to capture and subsequently recycle pollutants for economic benefit. Initially, this will happen through subsidies, and later — through responsible investment. 
"First of all, it is developed countries that have reached a certain level of well-being that have begun to reduce negative environmental impacts. Russia only recently started to officially declare the importance of sustainable production. It is likely that the pace of work in this direction will also largely depend on the dynamics of the country's economic indicators," added FinExpertiza President Yelena Trubnikova. 
Previously, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment drew up a ranking of the regions with the most polluted air based on an analysis of air samples. At the top of the list were the Trans-Baikal Territory, the Republic of Khakassia, the Murmansk Region, the Krasnoyarsk Territory, the Leningrad Region, Moscow, and the Sakhalin, Kemerovo, Volgograd and Sverdlovsk regions. 
Russian Natural Resources Minister: Decline in Northern Sea Route freight volume is obvious 
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, there has been an apparent decline in the amount of freight shipped via the Northern Sea Route against target indicators, Russian Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Dmitry Kobylkin told journalists. 
"Certain economic circumstances in our country and in the world indicate whether companies will be able to achieve them (the targets — ed.) or not. It is obvious that the pandemic has resulted in certain changes. We do not use robots to produce mineral resources and there have been problems with workers' shifts, transportation and so on. We will definitely have to make some adjustments this year. Although it is not the right time to give you new figures right now. <…> Every industry is going through changes, including the oil and gas industry. The energy agenda is starting to change in many countries, including due to the Paris Agreement," he added. 
Dmitry Kobylkin also noted that the ministry has been maintaining contact with major companies and correcting the plans for mineral resources production in the Arctic. "Yesterday I spoke to Rosneft and Khudainatov (Eduard Khudainatov, businessman — ed.) and with Mikhelson (Leonid Mikhelson, Novatek CEO — ed.). On Thursday, I will be speaking to Gazprom CEO Alexei Miller and other top managers." 
In the 2018 May Executive Order, Vladimir Putin set a goal of increasing the amount of freight shipped via the Northern Sea Route to 80 million tons by 2024. The target indicator of 31 million tons was achieved by the end of 2019. However, Yury Trutnev, Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District, has already announced that the 2024 target for the Northern Sea Route may be lowered along with other national goals. He did not specify what the new target figure would be. 
Scientists: Earthworms may destroy the Arctic 
"Most parts of Europe have earthworms so we never really saw them as a problem," says lead researcher Dr. Gesche Blume-Werry, an ecologist from the University of Greifswald in Germany, as quoted by The Guardian. "But more and more spots in the Arctic have worms because humans brought them there." 
Typical Arctic temperatures are too cold for fungi and bacteria to break down organic matter effectively. This causes a lack of nutrients in the soil, preventing plants from growing. However, earthworms are capable of becoming a weapon to destroy the Arctic. They make local soils too fertile — they increase nitrogen, an important component in plant growth, and move nutrients down to the roots through a network of horizontal and vertical tunnels. According to research, these processes can have the same effect on the growth of Arctic plants as a temperature increase of 3 degrees Celsius. In particular, scrubby plants that grow better and taller due to nitrogen-rich soils are more likely to stick out of the snow in winter. Scientists believe that this could mean more heat is absorbed, accelerating snow melt. 
"You have these changes in albedo [the reflective quality of a surface]," explains Blume-Werry. "If the surface is darker, which happens if plants are not covered in snow, then less light is being reflected and more heat is being trapped. The warmer it gets, the better plants grow." 
According to the researchers, earthworms had been absent since at least the last ice age, 12,000 years ago, in the northern forests of Canada and the US. But as settlers from Europe colonized these lands, they brought earthworms with them on ships and on imported plants. Slowly, earthworms changed the local ecosystem by converting forest litter and leaves into humus. This altered the delicate relationship between fungi and plants, which changed the pH of the top layers of soil, leading to less overall biodiversity and a change in the ratio between fungi and plants. 
Currently, earthworms have settled in Arctic soils in North America, Greenland, Iceland, Fennoscandia, and Russia. They move at around five to 10 meters per year, but thanks to humans, they can jump from the UK to Spitsbergen (Svalbard), to remote areas in a single move — by hitchhiking in the treads of people's shoes. Earthworms are used as bait for fishing and for gardening. As the Arctic warms, they are able to invade more areas. 
The scientists warn earthworms "may pose a potent threat to some of the most remote and protected Arctic environments in northern Europe," and call for immediate action, as the worms are almost impossible to eradicate. 
Applications open for Russian Arctic resident status 
Starting August 28, potential investors can apply to become residents of the Russian Arctic zone via arctic-russia.ru. Applications are welcome from legal entities (individual entrepreneurs) registered in the Arctic that plan to carry out a new investment project or to launch a new type of economic activity with capital investment of at least 1 million rubles. Eligible companies cannot have outstanding taxes or duties exceeding 25 percent of their asset balance, or be in the midst of an insolvency, liquidation or restructuring procedure. 
The application form is very straightforward and includes basic information about the applicant and the planned investment project. After filling out the form, the investor will be able to receive complete information about the available services, including the opportunity to apply for a resident status. The residence procedure is also very simple and requires three easy steps for completing the package of support documents. 
"With support from consultants at Arctic development institutes, applicants can complete their application forms via their personal accounts, prepare the correct support documents and, without further delay, become a Russian Arctic zone resident within ten days. Residents benefit from an entire range of incentives for conducting business," commented Alexander Kozlov, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
His deputy Alexander Krutikov noted that an investor account not only makes it easier to obtain resident status. It is a one-stop-shop that helps entrepreneurs communicate with the ministry and the Arctic development institutions in a convenient format, receive prompt responses to inquiries and support in case of problems. 
"We have taken important steps towards improving the public administration system with respect to Arctic region development. Russia's Arctic will almost completely be covered by a special economic zone with a range of available tax concessions. Most importantly, the approach is changing: if in the past, the state invested its own funds in the Arctic — and those funds were rather limited — now we are focusing on supporting investors and assisting with economic projects. We will continue to improve conditions for doing business and develop the economy of the Arctic territories because this is what will eventually improve the quality of life there," said Yury Trutnev, Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District, who also chairs the State Commission for Arctic Development. 
On July 13, 2020 President Vladimir Putin signed a package of federal laws on a system of benefits for businesses in the Arctic. Developed by the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the package includes the Federal Law On Government Support for Business Activities in the Arctic Area of the Russian Federation and corresponding amendments to Part 2 of the Russian Tax Code and several other legislative acts. As a result, Russia's Arctic is becoming the world's largest economic zone with a common package of incentives, covering an area of almost 5 million sq km. 
From the Russian Arctic with Love: Photo exhibitions and film premieres 
On September 3 at 5 pm, a photo exhibition From the Russian Arctic with Love will open at the State Darwin Museum in Moscow and will feature works by nature photographers, including Nikolai Gernet, Mikhail Nitishinsky, Artyom Kelarev, Yulia Petrova, Andrei Kunnikov and others. All of them have taken pictures of Arctic landscapes and Russian Arctic National Park, the largest and northernmost protected area in this country. The exhibition will run until November 8. 
Taking part in the opening ceremony will be Anna Klyukina, Director of the State Darwin Museum; Yevgeny Stupnikov, Director of the Information and Analytical Center for Supporting Nature Conservation (Roszapovedtsentr) at the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment; and Alexander Kirilov, Director of Russian Arctic National Park. 
That same day, the museum's movie theater will host an exclusive showing of the documentary Voice of Tikhaya Bay by Anastasia Lomakina. In turn, film director Boris Amarov will present his documentary, Cape Zhelaniya: A Taste of Honey, about the national park's development. Amarov will also share his own experience of living above the 80th parallel. Those visiting the museum can watch the motion picture for free. 
The exhibition will also include meetings with research associates from Russian Arctic National Park and workshops. 
From September 10 through October 1, the Darwin Museum's movie theater will screen unique documentaries on Arctic expeditions of the 1930s as part of the Arctic Cinema Week project. Archive newsreels were restored and provided with narration and soundtracks by the Positive Film Studio using money from the Presidential Grants Fund. Film director and member of the Russian Union of Filmmakers Boris Dvorkin, who conceived the project, will address audiences before each showing. 
September 10, 7 pm Two Oceans (1933) Arctic Voyage (1933) 
September 17, 7 pm Chelyuskin: Heroes of the Arctic (1934) Voyage of the Icebreaker Sadko (1935) 
September 24, 7 pm At the North Pole (1937) Over the Arctic (1937) 
October 1, 7 pm Ice Crusher (1935) White Silence (2019) 
The exhibition From the Russian Arctic with Love continues a festival Meet the Nature Reserves, which aims to popularize Russian protected areas, ecotourism and the volunteer movement in nature reserves and national parks. 
Exhibition dates: September 1-November 8, 2020 Venue: State Darwin Museum, Main Building, 2nd Floor Gallery 
New tourist itineraries are being planned in Taymyr 
A research expedition initiated by Norilsk Development Agency has studied prospective tourist itineraries for the Taymyr Peninsula, in the north of the Krasnoyarsk Territory, with a view to developing Arctic tourism and recreation opportunities there, according to the Taymyr District administration press service. 
The expedition was to study local flora and fauna, the bathyorography of the Laptev Sea, Khatanga Bay and Lake Kungasalach, and verify the coordinates of walrus grounds and muskoxen migration patterns. This information will be used in planning the most interesting and spectacular tourist itineraries and help maintain wild animal habitats. 
The experts note that now they cannot estimate the number of tourists or evaluate the human impact and minimize unfavorable effect on Arctic flora and fauna. 
The Arctic tourist and recreation area will include Norilsk, Dudinka and the Putorana Plateau areas. Norilsk is being considered as the center of cultural, educational and industrial tourism, Dudinka as the center of event and ethnographic tourism, and the Putorana Plateau as extreme and environmental tourism. 
Experts from various areas have long been of the opinion that Arctic tourism will not see big volumes because of high costs and a short tourist season, the three summer months. Nevertheless, it needs to be developed because the demand for unusual or extreme tourism is growing every year. Specifically, the northern regions can offer participation in research expeditions, taking Arctic animals "under patronage," extreme sports in the Arctic and traveling in small vessels. 
September 1: Institute of North and Arctic, International Arctic School opened 
The Institute of the North and the Arctic opened at the Siberian Federal Institute in Krasnoyarsk. Deputy Chairman of the Krasnoyarsk Territorial Government Anatoly Tsykalov, Deputy of the Territory's Legislative Assembly Valery Farukshin, and Arthur Gayulsky, President of the Territorial Association of Small Indigenous Peoples of the North, attended the official opening ceremony. 
The University's Rector Maxim Ruymantsev showed the visitors the new lecture-rooms that will be used all the time by the first students. The Institute is located inside a new building on the Krasnoyarsk campus. Its main faculties will also be established in Tura, Dudinka, Igarka, Turukhansk and Norilsk. 
The Institute is to train and retrain specialists for studying the North and the Arctic. Students will be trained under pre-university curricula at the International Northern School and additional education curricula at the International Arctic Business School. 
"The International Northern School is called on to train young people who live in the North, including representatives of small indigenous nations, and to prepare them for enrolling in the Institute of the North and the Arctic. The International Arctic Business School will retrain residents of the Krasnoyarsk Territory's northern areas and it will offer them advanced training courses. They will receive additional knowledge for working in the North," Anatoly Tsykalov pointed out. He also thanked the top managers of the Northern Federal University for all the work they've put into establishing the Institute and expressed hope that it would become the main facility for training specialists, due to develop Arctic and northern territories. 
The Institute was established on orders from Alexander Uss, Head of the Krasnoyarsk Territory. Famous scientist, Arctic and Antarctic explorer Arthur Chilingarov, an Associate Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, a State Duma Deputy, a Hero of Russia and the First Vice President of the Russian Geographical Society, will become the Institute's head of research. 
* * * 
The International Arctic School also opened in Yakutsk in an impressive setting. Head of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Aisen Nikolayev, Chair of the Standing Committee of the State Assembly (Il Tumen) of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) on Science, Education, Culture, Media Outlets and Public Organizations' Affairs, Feodosia Gabysheva, and Mikhail Sivtsev, the Republic's Minister of Education and Science, as well as the Director of the International Arctic School Sardana Tatarinova, attended the opening ceremony. 
The new education institution is called on to integrate the best international education practices. The School's graduates will be able to master the international community' experience, to comprehend regional specifics, and they will facilitate the sustainable development of the North and the Arctic. 
The hosts organized a guided tour for the School's visitors who went to the Planetarium and the IT Laboratory boasting state-of-the-art equipment, as well as a foreign languages classroom, a video studio, a music classroom, a dance floor and a gym. 
Head of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev noted that the opening of the International Arctic School was a new milestone in the development of the republican education system. "The people's desire, multiplied on a balance and education-and-science competences of our republic, are working miracles. In all, 185 children from all over the republic, from 22 municipal districts and Yakutsk city have passed a rather difficult competition, and they are now entering this school. This is a wonderful achievement, and I am quite confident that this school's education system will be built along entirely different lines. This will be nothing else but a real world-class education facility. Students should learn and gain knowledge on a par with the best schools abroad," he added. 
Feodosia Gabysheva, Chair of the Standing Committee of the State Assembly (Il Tumen) of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) on Science, Education, Culture, Media Outlets and Public Organizations' Affairs, noted that the opening of the International Arctic School was a history-making event, and that this now was the only such school in Russia's entire Far East. She also added that the School's concept had been approved at top level, that is, at a meeting of officials from Russia's permanent mission to the UN, at the UN Permanent Forum on Indigenous Issues and at the General Assembly of the Northern Forum. 
In turn, the Republic's Minister of Education and Science Mikhail Sivtsev noted that the International Arctic School would soon become the main driving force of the entire Yakut education system. 
"Today, we realize that we are moving to a new level of the republican education system's development. Presidential schools were established in the republic some time ago. We are now establishing an international-rank school <…> It goes without saying that the School will help support other republican schools. For example, we are talking about experience exchanges, the testing of new models in organizing the academic process," he said in conclusion. 
MGU glacier in Polar Urals has completely melted 
The MGU glacier, which was considered the second largest and the longest in the Urals in the mid-20th century, has completely melted. Scientists of the Arctic Research Center and Lomonosov Moscow State University made the finding during their glaciological expedition to the glaciers of the Polar Urals, reported the press service of Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
When the glacier was discovered in 1953, it was 2.2 km long. 
"When we visited the glacier last time in 2010, it still had a great amount of ice. Although the glacier was actually separated from the accumulation zone, the extraglacial lake was destroying it vigorously. The photos taken by tourists in the subsequent years showed that a part of it still remained. It turned out that the glacier completely melted this year," said Mikhail Ivanov, a university research fellow and member of the expedition. 
They also examined the IGAN glacier, the largest in the Polar Urals. The scientists noted that its extraglacial lakes look larger compared to 2018. 
"By assessing the condition of ice nuclei in the moraine (a mixture of ice and rocks, which acts as a natural dam for the glacier's outwash. — Editor's note), we can determine the risk of dangerous natural phenomena, such as glacial mudflow, and whether it is necessary to conduct annual monitoring of the condition of the lake. Scientists plan to return to IGAN in April 2021 to perform a snow survey for further calculations of the glacier mass balance," added the press service. 
The scientists will send the obtained research results to the World Glacier Monitoring Service, the Department of Natural Resources Regulation, Forestry Relations and Oil and Gas Industry Development as well as the Department of Youth Policy and Tourism. 
Norway set to start oil production north of the Arctic Circle 
Norway finished its public hearings on the government's plans to develop nine new deposits that are located north of the Arctic Circle. Experts believe that these deposits may be risky both in terms of the environment and for commercial benefit. The decision to extract oil so far north of the polar circle could also spoil the northern kingdom's relations with other countries that have also signed the Spitsbergen Treaty (now called the Svalbard Treaty) that recently observed its centenary. This international treaty determines the international legal status of the Spitsbergen Archipelago and regulates economic and other activities in the surrounding waters. 
Professor of Norwegian University of Agder Ilan Kelman says safe oil production in the Arctic is impossible in principle. At any rate, it remains impossible now because despite the considerable climate changes this region has remained very difficult for human existence over the years. 
In their open letter to the government of Norway, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), Greenpeace and the Nature and Youth organization recalled that the government agency responsible for preserving the Arctic, resolutely objected to all 24 oil permits that were issued by the government of Norway for oil production in the northern areas in 2002-2019. 
Prof. Kelman believes that there is no point in talking about oil production in the northern altitudes before an oil spill cleanup technology is developed for the Arctic. 
Over 30 years ago, the Norwegian parliament opened almost the entire Barents Sea to the oil industry with the exception of its southeastern part. Development in this part of the sea was allowed in 2013 after the signing of an agreement with Russia on sea boundaries in the region. 
According to the Spitsbergen Treaty signed by 46 states, the archipelago belongs to Norway but with some reservations. Thus, the treaty regulates issues of militarization and allows the signatories to engage in commercial activities in its waters. Only Norway and Russia are conducting commercial activities so far. 
Thus, the decision on oil production in the far north could spoil relations between Norway and Russia for which this region is of enormous strategic importance. In the past few years, Russia has upgraded its northern nuclear-powered submarine fleet and built up its military presence on Franz Josef Land that is not far from Spitsbergen. 
At present, reports indicate that applications for developing oil deposits north of Norway will be accepted until the beginning of 2021. It is quite possible that oil production in this region may start soon after the tender is over. 
Completing aerial survey of polar bear population 
Members of the expedition of the Master of the Arctic environmental project stipulating aerial polar bear and marine mammal counts in coastal areas of the Russian Arctic are wrapping up their work on September 4, 2020. 
The group flew over 10,000 km along previously charted high-seas and coastal routes, including the shoreline of the Yamal Peninsula's northern section, the eastern coast of the Gydan Peninsula, the Novaya Zemlya, Bely, Vaigach, Dolgy, Matveyev, Shokalsky and Maly Zelenets islands, the water surface of the Pechora Sea, as well as the Ob, Baidaratskaya and Khaipudyrskaya estuaries. 
The team's main goal was to study the distribution and size of the Kara Sea and Barents Sea polar bear population during the ice-free season on the mainland and on the islands. They also wanted to collect data on attendant marine mammals and to assess the environmental situation throughout the entire region. 
The expedition's researchers and air crews are to meet at noon on September 4 at Severka airfield in the Moscow Region's Kolomna District. There are plans for a news conference involving Svetlana Radionova, Head of the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources (Rosprirodnadzor), Sergei Krikalyov, President of the International Environmental Fund Clean Seas and the Fund's General Director Vasily Bogoslovsky, Andrei Patrushev, General Director of the Arctic Initiatives Center, Test Pilot, Cosmonaut and Hero of Russia and the expedition's Chief Pilot Valery Tokarev and Nikita Platonov, Ph. D. (Technology), a senior research associate from the Russian Academy of Sciences' Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution who heads the expedition's research group. 
The project was conceived and is implemented by the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources (Rosprirodnadzor), the Arctic Initiatives Center and the International Environmental Fund Clean Seas. RIA Novosti and the Arctic.ru special project of the Rossiya Segodnya International Information Agency acted as the expedition's general media partners. 
For accreditation, call +7 (495) 640 6478 and + 7 (919) 786 1162 until September 3, 2020. 
Evidence of ancient Yamal-Novgorod trade route found 
Specialists from the Arctic Research Center working at archeological landmark Ngarka-Yedyotayakha 2 in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area on the Yamal Peninsula have unearthed two keys from Veliky Novgorod, used to unlock chests dating back to the first half of the 12th century. They also discovered a copper pot from the Cis-Ural area and traces of copper-smelting production, as well as other artifacts. These finds confirm scientists' conjectures that a northern trade route had linked the peninsula's residents with major medieval centers and neighboring regions. 
"We do not claim that Novgorod merchants reached what is now the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. Most likely, trade outposts were established in neighboring territories. This made it possible to deliver goods to the Polar Ural area and to Yamal stage by stage. Permanent contacts between the Cis-Ural and Trans-Ural areas show the existence of trade routes and indicate that outposts were deployed on Polar Ural mountain passes," Andrei Plekhanov in charge of the excavation project and a senior research associate with the History and Archeology Sector at the Arctic Research Center, explained. 
Earlier, scientists found only one key from Novgorod here in 2007, that is, at the Nakhodka Bay community on the Kara Sea coast. The two new keys revealthat the Yamal Peninsula's medieval residents owned private property and maintained stable commercial relations with Novgorod. 
The Ngarka-Yedyotayakha 2 community was discovered in 2019 during archeological prospecting at the confluence of the Ngarka-Yedyotayakha River and the Zyryanskaya Ob Stream. Specialists discovered several cultural layers at the 100 square meter excavation site. The lower layers contained ceramic fragments dating to the 10th-8th centuries BC (Late Bronze Age), part of the Kheyakhinskaya culture, as well as stone arrow tips and fragments of them. Other finds date back to the 4th-6th centuries AD (Karymsky Stage) and the 9th-2th centuries AD (Tiuteisalinsky Stage). 
Scientists also found evidence confirming the existence of metal-production facilities in medieval Yamal whose residents processed copper. A pouring gate and metal-smelting residue were discovered at the excavation site. Archeologists also discovered various tools, including metal hooks and a chisel with a reindeer-horn handle. Tundra residents imported copper and used it sparingly. They did not throw metal residue away, and old items were re-melted for making new ones. 
Scientists want to send all the finds to the Shemanovsky Museum/Exhibition Complex in Salekhard, the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic gets more powers 
The published resolution No. 1297 of August 28, 2020 on Introducing Amendments to the Provisions on the Ministry of the Russian Federation for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has expanded the powers of the department. 
Thus, the ministry can now issue construction permits, commission infrastructure facilities during their construction and reconstruction, as well as allocate plots of land in federal ownership, which are free from the rights of third persons, with a view to implementing investment projects in Russia's Arctic territory. 
The document also approves the order for maintaining a registry of Russian Arctic zone residents, the content of information and the order for providing it, and establishes requirements to a business plan, attached to the application for signing an agreement on investment activities and the criteria for assessing this plan, and endorses methods of defining the maximum-permissible deviations from the parameters of the investment project envisaged by an agreement on investment activities. 
In addition to this, the document establishes the order for coordinating spot inspections of Russian Arctic zone residents, grounds for holding them and standards of responsibility of these residents in relations with the indigenous small peoples of the North that reside and/or conduct economic activities there, and the order for monitoring of the said responsibility standards by these residents. 
The ministry will also be able to provide services for the residents of Russia's Arctic zone, which are required for conducting activities there, including in the legal sphere, accounting and customs formalities. 
The Ob, Yenisei and Lena rivers contribute about one half of the total freshwater runoff to the Arctic Ocean 
Researchers at the Shirshov Institute of Oceanology of the Russian Academy of Scientists (RAS) and specialists at the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology have studied the distribution of river plumes (freshwater masses — Ed.) that are formed in the seas of the Russian Arctic as a result of the intermixing of fresh river water and saltwater. 
"River plumes are freshwater masses that form in the estuaries of rivers and spread over the surface of sea saltwater in a relatively thin layer. The dynamics of river plumes are largely determined by the wind and the amount of river runoff that forms them," said Senior Research Associate of the RAS Institute of Oceanology Alexander Osadchiyev. 
According to the study, the total volume of water flow from the Ob, Yenisei and Lena rivers into the Kara and Laptev seas is about 2,300 cubic kilometers per year, or about half of all the freshwater flowing into the Arctic Ocean. Most of the freshwater flows into the sea during the ice-free period from June to September. The river plumes formed by the Ob, Yenisei and Lena rivers are the largest in the Arctic and some of the largest in the world's oceans. 
The researchers also studied the eastward spreading of the Ob-Yenisei plume from the Kara Sea to the Laptev Sea via the narrow Vilkitsky Strait (located between Severnaya Zemlya archipelago and the Taimyr Peninsula) and the propagation of the Lena plume from the Laptev Sea to the East Siberian Sea through the narrow Dmitry Laptev and Sannikov straits. 
The research indicates that during ice-free periods the continental discharge from the Ob and Yenisei rivers accumulates in the Kara Sea for the most part. Topographic barriers posed by the western coast of the Taimyr Peninsula and Severnaya Zemlya archipelago prevent the Ob-Yenisei plume from spreading to the Laptev Sea. This only takes place in very specific wind conditions. In contrast, the Lena plume almost always spreads to the western part of the East Siberian Sea as a large water body and later forms a narrow low-salinity littoral current in the eastern part of the East Siberian Sea. This Siberian littoral current is supplemented by the freshwater flow from other large rivers like the Indigirka and Kolyma and spreads further east to the Chukchi Sea. 
"Freshwater from the rivers flowing into the Arctic Ocean mixes very slowly with the saltwater, which creates very stable river plumes at the big rivers. As we have found out, freshwater can be carried by the wind many hundreds of kilometers to the east. Our study has allowed us to estimate the transport of freshwater discharge between the Kara Sea, the Laptev Sea and the East Siberian Sea during ice-free periods," said Assistant Professor, Deputy Head of the MIPT Chair of the Ocean Thermohydromechanics Sergei Shchuka. 
Scientists believe that the data received are vital for understanding the processes of ice formation, bio productivity and many other phenomena in the Arctic that are influenced by mainland water runoff. 
The study was conducted in cooperation with the Ilyichev Pacific Institute of Oceanology and the Tomsk Polytechnic University, and with support from the Ministry of Science and Higher Education, the Russian Government, the Russian Foundation for Basic Research (RFBR), the Russian Science Foundation, and the Presidential Grants Foundation. 
More details on the study can be found in the magazine Scientific Reports. 
Radioactivity levels in Barents Sea bottom sediment is decreasing 
According to Yevgeny Yakovlev, radioactivity levels from manmade isotopes in bottom sediment in the Barents Sea were found to have decreased compared with the 1990s-2000s. Yakovlev is head of the laboratory of environmental radiology at the Federal Research Center for the Comprehensive Study of the Arctic, the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences in Arkhangelsk (Research Center). 
"What we see is a significant reduction compared to earlier years," he said. "This is due to the natural decay of manmade isotopes. <…> In the 1990s-2000s, there were many studies on manmade isotopes, in particular, Caesium-137, which is a relatively long-life isotope. Compared with these data, we see a significant decrease, which is due to decaying Caesium-137. That is, we didn't find new manmade radionuclides," he said. 
As you may be aware, the radioactive waste from the military and civilian nuclear fleet was buried in the Arctic seas from the mid-1950s to the early 1990s. "We have not detected the influence of these sites," the researcher said. 
Scientists from the Research Center also studied the activity of natural radionuclides such as Potassium-40, Thorium-232 and Radium-226. According to Yevgeny Yakovlev, the activity of these substances in the Barents Sea is lower than the average background values worldwide. In addition, lab tests of samples for man-made radionuclides are still underway, and the results will be known in about six months. "We are studying the behavior of tritium, a heavy manmade hydrogen isotope. It is short-lived, and we are monitoring it," he said. "We took samples at over 300 sites at different depths. Tritium indicates fresh incoming manmade radionuclides, so it's important to study it." 
Notably, today there is no active production in the Barents Sea (unlike, for example, the Norwegian Sea). Only one oil platform — Prirazlomnaya — is operational in the Pechora Sea, which is part of the Barents Sea, but experts say that development in the Barents Sea is very promising. 
"There are over 11 major oil, gas and gas condensate fields there. The data on natural radionuclides can be a base point for further assessment of changes in the radionuclide state of bottom sediment when developing oil and gas fields," Yevgeny Yakovlev said. 
He added that it is necessary to conduct constant monitoring because the content of natural radionuclides, mainly in the uranium series, increases in the composition of sediment during off-shelf oil and gas production. 
According to researchers, climate change is also increasing the flow of radioactive substances into the Arctic seas. For example, the melting of glaciers contributes to the release of radionuclides into the water, radionuclides that fell on the glaciers after nuclear tests and were "mothballed" in them. "This is called the likelihood of secondary radioactive contamination, because a large amount of manmade isotopes fell on the surface of the glaciers during tests, explosions, accidents, etc. The Arctic is undergoing global warming, the ice sheet is degrading, and all this can also increase manmade radioactivity in the future," Yevgeny Yakovlev said. 
The studies were carried out as part of the Transarktika-2019 Roshydromet project's second phase in the Barents Sea, aboard the Mikhail Somov research vessel from May 15 to June 14, 2019. 
Arctic entrepreneurs to receive partial compensation for insurance fees 
On September 2, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin signed a resolution to allocate subsidies from the federal budget to reimburse insurance fees for resident entrepreneurs of the Arctic zone. 
The funds will be distributed by the Far East Development Corporation. The support measure applies only to new jobs in non-mining enterprises. Individual entrepreneurs will also be eligible. The compensation applies to compulsory pension and health insurance and social insurance for temporary disability and in connection with the birth of a child. Compensation for a resident entrepreneur will amount to 75 percent of insurance fees. For example, if, in accordance with the Tax Code, an entrepreneur owes 30 percent of the employee's salary, the actual rate will be 7.5 percent, and if an entrepreneur must pay 15 percent, as for small and medium-sized businesses, then the rate will amount to 3.75 percent. 
"We will continue to improve the conditions for doing business and develop the economy of the Arctic territories, because this will help improve the living conditions of people in the future," said Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev. He also added that this changes the principle of the state's work to develop the Arctic: while at the previous stage the state itself invested in the Arctic, and the amounts were not large, now it is about supporting investors and providing assistance to economic projects. 
For his part, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Kozlov added: "Creating incentives for entrepreneurs in the Arctic, we assessed the current conditions for doing business in the harsh Arctic zone and more favorable climatic regions of Russia. And at the moment, the Arctic has the best option for insurance fee reimbursement throughout the country." 
Partial reimbursement of insurance fees paid to state extra-budgetary funds for resident entrepreneurs of the Arctic zone is set out in the federal law on state support of entrepreneurship in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation, which is included in the package of federal laws on the system of Arctic incentives developed by the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, signed on July 13 by Russian President Vladimir Putin. 
Icebreakers may be allowed to cross the border without customs clearance 
The Federal Security Service proposed allowing icebreakers to leave Russian ports in the Arctic for commercial navigation in the Arctic Ocean and adjacent seas, and to arrive in Russian ports without customs clearance. The relevant draft document has been published for public discussion on the laws and regulations website. 
The draft specifies that at present Russian icebreakers conduct scientific expeditions in the Arctic Ocean beyond the limits of Russia's exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, as well as cruises in the Russian Arctic National Park basin and to the North Pole. "In these cases they are not legally entitled to cross the state border repeatedly without border and customs clearance or other control procedures," the report reads. Amendments to the government's relevant resolution may help simplify the problem. 
The discussion will last until September 21. It is expected to pass and to come into force in January 2021. 
New medicinal substances have been obtained from Arctic juniper 
Specialists from the Federal Research Center for the Comprehensive Study of the Arctic, the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences (Research Center) have developed a method for extracting new active pharmacological substances from junipers growing in the Arctic, the Ministry of Science and Higher Education press service reported. 
"Using a combination of chemical and physical processes, we have developed innovative approaches to the comprehensive processing of renewable plant material. These methods can be used to extract biologically active substances for the pharmacological and perfumery industries. <…> (These methods have been used) on the wood of the Arctic juniper, and components that hold a lot of promise for pharmacology have been extracted from it," the message runs. 
The researchers used supercritical technologies that make it possible to modify the wood matrix by changing its capillary-porous structure and applied "sequential disassembly" of the juniper wood matrix by placing it in a closed system under high temperature and pressure in the presence of chemical agents. This made it possible to precisely change the material's structure and properties. 
As a result, the researchers were able to isolate components that cannot be extracted using conventional methods. For example, triterpene alcohol — sitosterol (0.8%) — can be used in the pharmacological industry, since it has regenerating and antioxidant properties. We also managed to obtain squalene, a hydrocarbon that is used to boost immunity and lower cholesterol, as well as in diagnosing and treating cancer and viral diseases. 
The results of the plant cell wall morphological studies were also quite meaningful. As is known, there are no resin passages in common juniper wood. The experiment helped researchers discover spherical resinous formations in cell cavities where extractive substances build up. 
"Prior to using supercritical technology, we were not sure exactly where the resin was located in the juniper wood. We used a scanning electron microscope to take micrographs before and after wood processing, which showed that untreated wood contains areas of cell walls covered with drops or even a dense layer of resin," Anna Krasikova, a researcher at the Plant Biopolymer Chemistry Laboratory at the Institute of Environmental Problems of the North at the Research Center, said. 
Filipp Yuryev’s Whaler” shown at the Venice Festival 
The first run of the film "Whaler" by Russian filmmaker Filipp Yuryev took place under the parallel programme of Venice Days art films at the 77th Venice Film Festival. The "Whaler" is the debut full-length film of the filmmaker who made several shorts and documentaries. Filmmaker Alexei Uchitel was the producer of the film. 
Yuryev said he got the idea for the film about six years ago and an outline for the story was laid out in 2015. There were several attempts to launch the project but he only managed to finish it recently. 
"I'm glad that the project is still fresh and that I didn't lose interest in it. <…> It was thanks to being selected for the festival in Venice that I was motivated to finish it on time," Yuryev admitted. 
The film is about a young man who lives in the Chukchi Peninsula. His village is separated from Alaska by the 90 km Bering Strait. He works in traditional whaling. And he falls in love with an American girl on an "adult" website. 
"I wrote the story by intuition. I‘ve never been to the Chukchi Peninsula, but it always seemed to me that this story was perfect for the place, and I was right. When I went there everything fit," Yuryev said. He explained that this is a "story of how hard it is to live with fading internet in an isolated island when you want to be part of the bigger world." 
In Venice, "Whaler" is nominated for the prestigious prize in the best debut category, the Lion of the Future award, named after Luigi De Laurentiis. Immediately after the Venice festival the film will be presented at the Russian Kinotavr and several other festivals, the producers report. 
Jens Stoltenberg on Arctic’s main paradox 
"The paradox of the Arctic is that you have this tradition of cooperation, trying to work together, lower tensions, but you also know that under the ice in the Arctic, you have some of the most dangerous weapons in the world. <…> We used to say that in the High North we have low tensions and what we've seen in the last years is increased challenges," said NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg in an interview with Friends of Europe. 
In particular, Stoltenberg noted that the economic rise of China presented both new opportunities and challenges, such as the increased Chinese military capabilities, to which NATO needed to see. 
"China is becoming a stronger and stronger naval power — over the last five years, they added 80 ships to their navy, that's the equivalent of the whole UK Royal Navy. And these ships and submarines, many of them can operate in the High North. If you put on top of that also more Chinese icebreakers, then it's a significant capability which of course NATO has to take into account when we do our planning and analysis," the Secretary General stressed. 
Stoltenberg added that, to date, China was the second largest economy in the world and has the second largest defense budget, which also affects the situation in the Arctic. 
As for Russia, Jens Stoltenberg said that it had already had a major presence within the Arctic, including military presence, and also pointed out deployment of new capabilities, submarines, the reopening of old military bases and more exercises carried out in the region. 
"You see many of the new and novel Russian missile systems deployed up there. Most of the nuclear submarine capabilities of Russia are based in Kola and in the High North,"Stoltenberg added. 
In response to these challenges, NATO has strengthened its ability to operate and be present in the High North, in particular investing in its collective defense. "What we have done is strengthening NATO's ability to operate in the High North with significantly more capabilities from land, air, on the sea and under the sea, all of that together with more exercises and a new command for the North Atlantic which also covers the Arctic. (Joint Forces Command in Norfolk, Virginia — ed.) All of that has put us in a place where we can operate, where we can respond and where we have increased our presence," Stoltenberg noted. 
However, despite the current challenges, NATO always needs to find a balance between avoiding increased tension and being present, the Secretary General noted. 
"I strongly believe that we should continue to work and strive for avoiding further escalation, a further increase of tension, and therefore NATO always has to find a balance between being firm, being predictable, being present but at the same time to do that in a defensive and measured way and that's exactly what we are aiming at through our presence in the Arctic," he added. 
St. Petersburg, Murmansk to host 1st International Arctic Media Congress 
The 1st International Arctic Media Congress is scheduled to be held on September 18 in St. Petersburg and on September 20-22 in Murmansk, as part of the Accessible Arctic international tourism forum. 
The event is to become a joint international communications platform for promoting the Russian Arctic's unique tourism potential, attracting additional tourists and investment in the Arctic tourism industry. 
The event is sponsored by the Federal Agency for Tourism (Rostourism) and the Government of the Murmansk Region. Representatives of the Russian Government, top Rostourism managers and those from the Ministry for the Development of Russia's Far East and the Arctic, as well as the governors of the Russian Arctic regions will attend the plenary session. 
The business program stipulates a series of roundtable discussions focusing on the Russian Arctic in the media space, promising Arctic tourism options, the development of Arctic regions' infrastructure, expanding tourist traffic and providing high-quality and affordable tourist services in the Arctic. 
The forum will also include a press breakfast devoted to the role of Arctic food in expanding the Russian tourism industry. The meal is to take place aboard the nuclear-powered icebreaker Lenin in Murmansk. A presentation session called Arctic Territories: A New Perception of Leisure in Russia will also be held. 
The participants are to take part in an interesting tourism program, including guided tours to the village of Teriberka, located above the Arctic Circle on the northeastern coast of the Kola Peninsula, and to the city of Kirovsk. After arriving in Kirovsk, they will visit the Apatit Joint Stock Company's museum/exhibition center and the local Botanical Garden. 
New Siberian Apollo subspecies discovered in Yakutia 
Scientists from the Altai State University together with their colleagues from the Russian Academy of Sciences' Zoological Institute in St. Petersburg have discovered a new subspecies of Siberian Apollo butterflies in Yakutia. 
"A new subspecies of the Siberian Apollo (Parnassus arcticus) was discovered during an expedition to northeastern Yakutia. <…> The new butterfly was caught above the Arctic Circle and high up in the mountains at an altitude of 1,400 meters above sea level. This is a tremendous altitude for the high latitudes where there is practically no vegetation, only stones," Roman Yakovlev, a professor with the Altai University's, Ecology, Biochemistry and Bioengineering Faculty, explained. 
The University's press service also added that scientists were able to determine the difference between the new butterflies from the well-known Parnassus tenedius and Parnassus arcticus species, after conducting morphological and genetic tests. 
The newly-discovered subspecies is called Parnassus arcticus arbugaevi in honor of Gherman Arbugayev, the director of the Chochur Muran Ecological-Ethnographic Complex, who helped the biologists who were on a visit study these insects. Yakovlev also explained that the newly-discovered butterfly was part of a well-studied group, and that the discovery of a new subspecies inside such a group was therefore a major sensation. Russia, being such a vast country, has many little-studied areas, especially in its northern regions. This amounts to blank spots in terms of biodiversity studies, the professor noted. 
The new butterflies look like representatives of the rarest polar butterfly species from the Papilionidae family, but there are some differences. The newly-discovered subspecies is larger, has more elongated wings with an ornament that lacks black spots. However, there are some red tinges. 
Murmansk Region and Iceland to expand cooperation in education and the fishing industry 
Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrei Chibis met with the new Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of the Republic of Iceland to the Russian Federation Arni Tor Sigurdsson. During the meeting, they discussed cooperation in the fishing industry and education, the regional government press service said. 
The Murmansk Region and Iceland already have experience cooperating in these areas, in particular, fish processing enterprises in the region provide factories and plants with equipment and use the services of technical specialists from Iceland. In addition, an agreement on cooperation in higher and vocational education is in effect between the University of Akureyri and the Murmansk State Technical University. 
During the meeting, Andrei Chibis said that there are plans for foreign teachers, including those from the countries of the Barents region, to visit Murmansk in 2020. He also expressed hope that scientists and teachers from Iceland would take part in this work, as it will be useful and beneficial to those Icelandic companies that cooperate with Russian ones in the Arctic. It would be interesting to work together on creating joint laboratories, where, among other things, we could train specialists in those areas that are in demand for supplying high-tech equipment,” the governor said. 
For his part, the ambassador recalled that Akureyri and Murmansk are twin cities, and agreed with the proposal to arrange a student and teacher exchange, emphasizing the relevance of the Arctic agenda. It should be noted that Akureyri University is one of the largest scientific centers and universities studying Arctic issues, specializes in two areas – marine resource management and polar legislation. These are the areas in which we can further develop cooperation, and I will discuss this issue during my visit to the university,” added Arni Tor Sigurdsson. 
Russia postpones launch of satellite to monitor Arctic climate 
The launch of the first Arktika-M satellite from the Baikonur cosmodrome has been postponed. The remote-sensing satellite is for monitoring the climate and environment in the Arctic region. 
The new launch date will be approved later, the Roscosmos press service reported. 
Arktika-M carries onboard equipment similar to the geostationary meteorological devices of the Electro-L series. The satellite will be put in a highly elliptical orbit, where it will be able to collect meteorological and hydrological data about the Earth's polar regions that are poorly visible from Electro-L. The spacecraft is to be launched by a Soyuz-2.1b booster with a Frigate upper stage block. 
Furthermore, once two of the Arktika-M satellites are in orbit, the Hydrometeorological Center will continuously receive up-to-date information about the state of the atmosphere and surface at the Earth's poles. This will improve the accuracy of the models for making short-term weather forecasts and will provide researchers with a large amount of new data for studying global climate change. 
The launch of the second Arktika-M satellite is scheduled for 2023 and three more are to be built in 2021. 
Living Seas of the Russian Arctic photo exhibition opens in Moscow 
A walrus kindergarten, polar bears among the Arctic ice and bowhead whales will appear on Tverskoi Boulevard in Moscow thanks to the Living Seas of the Russian Arctic photo exhibition. On September 14 – October 31, people living in and those visiting the capital will be able to see 64 unique photographs of the inhabitants of the Far North by the best world-famous photographers. 
The images show rare flora and fauna of such unique areas as the Gydan Natural Reserve, the Russian Arctic National Park, the Laptev Sea Sanctuary and Wrangel Island, Nenets and Medvezhy Islands natural reserves. Visitors will be able to see such amazing and remote regions of the Russian Arctic as the Severnaya Zemlya and Franz Josef Land archipelagos and Chukotka and Taimyr coasts. 
In accord with the organizers’ idea, the photo exhibition will help draw attention to specially protected natural marine areas and show how beautiful and diverse the Arctic seas are and how important it is to take care of their development. 
The exhibition is presented by the Golden Turtle international wildlife festival and the World Wide Fund for Nature and supported by the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Moscow’s Department for Environmental Management and Protection. 
NEFU scientists to study the remains of a prehistoric brown bear 
Reindeer breeders have discovered the carcass of an ancient bear on Bolshoi Lyakhovsky Island, which is part of the Novosibirsk Islands archipelago in the Arctic Ocean (Yakutia). The unique find will be studied by the staff of the Mammoth Museum laboratory of the Molecular Paleontology Center of the Research Institute of Applied Ecology of the North of the North-Eastern Federal University together with Russian and foreign colleagues. 
According to the scientists' preliminary estimates, the ancient predator belongs to the Karginsky interglacial, but it is too early to talk about the exact age of the find. 
"It is necessary to carry out radiocarbon analysis to determine the absolute age of the bear. The person who found the bear transferred the right to research it to the scientists of the NEFU, and a scientific program for its comprehensive study will be developed in the future," said Candidate of Sciences (Biology) Maxim Cheprasov, senior researcher at the Mammoth Museum laboratory. 
To date, this is the first and only find of this kind where a whole bear carcass with soft tissues was found. 
"It is completely preserved, all the internal organs are in place. The photograph shows that the bear even has a nose. Previously, only skulls and bones were found," said Candidate of Sciences (Medicine) Lena Grigoryeva, head of the laboratory at the Molecular Paleontology Center. 
She added that a large international scientific project will be launched to study the find. Experts will have to study the bear's carcass, using all modern research methods: molecular genetic, cellular, microbiological and others. 
"We plan to carry out research on the same scale as when studying the mammoth from Maly Lyakhovsky Island," Lena Grigoryeva said. 
As yet, the scientists have not got the carcass. But another find of this species was discovered in the Abyisky District, and now negotiations are underway for its further scientific study. 
Yakutia hosts brigade landing exercise 
The Arctic group within Russia's Northern Fleet took part in a tactical training exercise in defending Russia's Arctic islands and continental territories in Tiksi Bay near the townsip of Tiksi. 
According to a statement released by the Northern Fleet press service, the maneuver was designed as a collective training for the fleet's forces and troops during a landing operation on an unimproved shore captured by a hypothetical enemy and efforts to defend the beachhead, as well as a raiding exercise in the Extreme North and the Arctic. 
"The exercise took place in several stages. With fire support from the large anti-submarine ship Severomorsk and two Ka-27 helicopters, fast landing crafts approached the shoreline, engaged the enemy and enabled the large landing ship Kondopoga carrying the main landing forces to approach the shore," the Defense Ministry said in a statement. 
Once the beachhead was taken, the main landing force disembarked directly from the landing ship Kondopoga on an unimproved shore in BRT-82A armored personnel carriers and DT-10 Vityaz all-terrain carriers. 
After that, the marines exercised raiding operations, searching for and eliminating reconnaissance and sabotage groups of the hypothetical enemy in coastal regions. 
Exercises of this kind have become a regular occurrence for the Northern Fleet in the Arctic. Landing and raiding exercises have already been held on Novaya Zemlya, Severnaya Zemlya, Taimyr, Саре Chelyuskin and the New Siberian Islands. This is the second time that Yakutia has hosted drills near Tiksi. 
School districts established in northern Yakutia 
School districts have been established as part of the education management system in the Arctic parts of Yakutia under the Arctic Teacher project launched this year. 
There are 95 schools in the Arctic zone of Yakutia where over 10,000 children are taught by about 1,900 teachers. Several Arctic regions comprise one school district, in which education quality indicators are monitored, and teacher exchanges and regional Olympiads are held. Each district has one of Yakutia’s teacher training colleges assigned to it,” explained Mikhail Prisyazhny, First Deputy Minister of Education and Science of the region, noting that the use of school districts is also a widespread practice in Alaska. 
According to experts, school districts help form a talent pool of teachers of various subjects and heads of educational institutions. Teaching teams are created in each district, which helps enhance the capabilities of the teaching personnel there. 
A teaching team includes experienced teachers who are also interested in doing research or project work, participants in the federal program Country Teacher and the Teacher of the Arctic program, as well as young, creatively minded teachers who show interest in addressing a specific problem, trailblazers,” Prisyazhny added. 
Furthermore, teacher training classes and scholarships will be established to stimulate interest in this profession among schoolchildren. Teacher training classes or groups are created at teacher training colleges in Yakutia to provide targeted career counselling for students, and foster a lasting interest in the teaching profession. Such groups accept students in grades 9-11. 
There was a period when Russia had a career placement system, which included privileges and higher salaries for those working in northern regions to encourage highly qualified teachers to go to the Arctic. In recent years, this nationwide system has been inactive. Support measures have moved to the regional level. The Country Teacher program and targeted training of teachers still cannot fully compensate for the shortage of teachers in the Arctic,” Prysyazhny says. 
Northern Sustainable Development Forum goes online 
The Second International Northern Sustainable Development Forum will be held online on September 27-30. The event will bring together representatives of the federal, national and regional executive and legislative bodies, international, non-profit and public organizations, diplomatic and trade missions of foreign states, transnational companies, state corporations, small and medium-sized businesses, research and academic institutions, and the expert community. 
The participants will focus on the transportation infrastructure in the North and the Arctic. Today, the industrial development of the Arctic shelf and shipping along the Northern Sea Route and the Northwest Passage to the region attract many countries. Creating efficient transportation infrastructure, including sea and river ports, highways, railways and main pipelines, is also high on the list of priorities. Air traffic plays a special role in developing the Arctic, including small aircraft and all-terrain vehicles. 
The participants will review three main angles of developing the transportation infrastructure of the Arctic. First, regional transportation networks, such as life support systems for the northern regions, the development of which may lead to building national transportation systems. Second, the development of national transportation links between the North and the Arctic with other Russian regions to ensure national interests and the formation of dependable international transportation networks (Northern Sea Route, highways and railways). Third, the discussion of the prospects for the development of global logistics, in particular, international transit and the formation of transcontinental transportation routes and intermodal transportation and logistics hubs, such as the Northern Sea Route, the Belt and Road Initiative, the Transcontinental Railway and Crosspolar Airlines. 
The forum will include a plenary session, thematic panel discussions, round table discussions, meetings of working groups, international or other organizations, project presentations, lectures, foresight sessions and workshops. 
The Northern Forum on Sustainable Development is a permanent international expert platform for discussing the problems and prospects for sustainable development of the North and the Arctic. The main idea behind ​​the forum is to unite the creative forces of the Arctic and Asia in resolving the problems of sustainable development in the regions of the North and the Arctic. The event is hosted by the government of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), the international organization of the northern regions Northern Forum, and North-Eastern Federal University. 
More information and the program of the event are available on the official website. 
Artifacts discovered by Northern Fleet and Russian Geographical Society expedition donated to Museum of the Arctic and Antarctic 
A collection of historical artifacts, found during a multipurpose expedition made by the Northern Fleet together with the Russian Geographical Society to islands of the Arctic archipelagos, has been donated to the Russian State Museum of the Arctic and Antarctic in St. Petersburg. 
The commander of the Northern Fleet, Hero of Russia, Vice-Admiral Alexander Moiseyev proposed sending the unique historical finds to the State Museum. He noted the historical and federal significance of the collection having offered the Russian State Museum of the Arctic and Antarctic the unique artifacts for storage and further study. 
"Today we received the first part of the collection that is mostly small items, and three printed booklets. It's impossible to read them as they still need to be restored. All the items are truly unique. It is an important event for our museum. It is the largest collection we've been sent for 45 years. As soon as the rest of the collection arrives, we will begin to prepare a large exhibition. I hope we will open it by the end of the year," Director Maria Dukalskaya said. 
Overall, more than 80 artifacts will be donated to the Museum of the Arctic and Antarctic. The material evidence of a food depot of the Austrian-Hungarian expedition of Karl Weiprecht and Julius Payer (1872-1874) found on the Barents Island is of great value, such as books as well as the remains of barrels in which provisions were preserved. Other unique finds include two crosses from the Georgy Sedov expedition (1912-1914), as well as 19th century items from Fyodor Rozmyslov's winter quarters in the Matochkin Shar strait, including an 18th century copper cross. 
The expedition members have also collected a large number of hunting artifacts such as bullets and shell casings; there was even a toy clown among the finds. Most of the things were found on the Severny Island of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago by a group led by Captain Second Rank Sergei Zinchenko, which used the MB-12 seagoing tug of the Northern Fleet. 
"The history of Arctic exploration has many blank pages. For example, several Russian polar explorers went missing and were never found — Vladimir Rusanov, Baron Toll, Georgy Brusilov's entire group. Dozens of pioneers, pomors, merchants and adventurers have remained incognito for posterity. The multipurpose expedition made by the Northern Fleet and the Russian Geographical Society was tasked with finding and preserving whatever was still possible to find. Sometimes our research becomes a reason for still deeper research. For example, the expedition members found a women's Old Believer cross in Tyuleny Bay. How did it end up there? It would be good to organize a separate archaeological expedition to Novaya Zemlya to explore Rozmyslov's winter quarters. No one has done this before. That would help solve some historical riddles and paradoxes," Colonel Sergei Churkin, science director of the expedition, said as the collection of artifacts was being handed over to the museum. 
The joint multipurpose expedition by the Northern Fleet and the Russian Geographical Society to the Arctic archipelagos, consisting of two research teams, set off on August 5, 2020. The first group that did research in the area of the Severny Island of the Novaya Zemlya archipelago on board the sea tug MB-12 returned to the port of Murmansk on August 31. 
The second team is still working on board the Ilya Muromets icebreaker; they have already completed their research in the Taimyr Peninsula area and are working in the East Siberian Sea. 
About 80% of Yamal reindeer population vaccinated against anthrax 
More than 415,000 reindeer, or 76 percent, have been vaccinated against anthrax in Yamal. Vaccination efforts have already finished in the Krasnoselkupsky and Purovsky districts, and now veterinary teams are working in the Priuralsky, Yamal and Tazovsky districts. 
More than half a million animals are expected to receive the vaccine this year. 
Vaccination in reindeer husbandry is carried out on an expeditionary basis. The process of working in the tundra depends on weather conditions. Now veterinary activities are proceeding as usual, but sometimes the work of veterinarians is complicated by gusty winds with rain. In previous periods, we vaccinated between 82 and 85% of all livestock. This percentage is considered sufficient to stop the development of an epizootic process, that is, a recurrence of an outbreak. We are already approaching these indicators. We hope that the vaccination efforts will be completed in the area by the end of September,” said Yevgeny Popov, the chief veterinarian of Yamal. 
He also noted that the reindeer are getting vaccinated and tagged at the same time. This year, more than 84,000 reindeer have been tagged, and the work is still going on. Municipal districts are assigned a numerical index on the tag, and each deer is given a unique number. Identification makes available the personal data of an animal: gender, age, owner and vaccination information. Animal counts are very important when planning anti-epizootic campaigns, stopping the spread of epizootics, as well as for receiving support from farms in case of unforeseen circumstances. The tagging procedure is free of charge. For the convenience of reindeer herders, vets do it at the same time as vaccination and other preventive measures. Over three years, more than 293,000 deer have been tagged in Yamal. 
Since the last cull, only vaccinated animals with individual tags are allowed to be slaughtered. In order to confirm the veterinary and sanitary safety of reindeer products, it is necessary to know their exact origin. We make this information widely known not only to commodity producers but also to every reindeer herder,” added Popov. 
Sounds of Russian Arctic nature now available online 
Everyone can now listen to relaxing audio with roaring polar bears, cracking ice and water splashing during a storm in the Barents Sea as well as sounds of whales. The total length of the recordings is over six and a half hours. 
The recordings can be found on the special website of Gazprom’s White Noise of the Arctic project as well as on VKontakte and SoundCloud. 
All the sounds are divided into several thematic categories, each containing facts about the Arctic. For example, the Seal Chill category contains the barking of seals, the noise of the Arctic breeze, the splash of salmon in the Pechora Sea and the cries of flying geese. 
We have collected the sounds of the Arctic to allow everyone to feel the atmosphere of this unique place,” the project’s website reads. 
Gazprom notes that the ecosystem of the Far North is the most fragile on the planet and the company uses cutting-edge production technologies and closely monitors human impact on the environment. 
Scientific council to be established at Arctic State Commission 
There are plans to establish a scientific Arctic council under the State Commission for Arctic Development, its Chair Yury Trutnev said at a meeting on organization of scientific research and development in Arctic Russia. 
We have met to discuss scientific research and development in the Arctic as well as the establishment of a scientific Arctic council under the State Commission for Arctic Development. The Arctic draws the interest of scientists from all over the world, in various fields, such as geology, water biological resources, the economy, and society. In a number of areas, Russian scientists occupy leading positions in the global scientific community,” Trutnev noted. 
Trutnev also emphasized that the aim of the state commission was to determine how to make scientific work more effective and what the government had to do to make scientists’ activities more successful and their research competitive. 
There are educational institutions that must train specialists for the Arctic. We are addressing a task set by the President of Russia: to increase the volume of cargo on the Northern Sea Route. This requires the development of communications and an icebreaker group as well as a more detailed study of the ice situation. 
All these issues must be addressed,” Trutnev said. Over 500 organizations located in 50 Russian regions carry out scientific research on the Arctic. They include universities, institutes and branches of the Russian Academy of Sciences, and research institutions of federal agencies as well as corporate scientific centers. 
Federal Agency for Tourism: The Arctic should be made more accessible to people while preserving its unique nature 
The First International Arctic Media Congress at the Accessible Arctic forum kicked off today in St. Petersburg’s Tauride Palace. According to Head of the Federal Agency for Tourism Zarina Doguzova, this event opens Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship. 
We would like to listen to bright ideas and share experience, and we look forward to constructive and vigorous work,” the head of the agency said. 
Zarina Doguzova also pointed out that the Arctic is associated with the exotic, and the current task is to make that region closer and more accessible for everybody. 
It takes only two hours to fly there from Moscow,” Doguzova said. We should work together to make the Arctic more accessible to people while preserving its unique nature.” 
She also shared her view that stable tourism in the Arctic may promote the region’s socioeconomic stability, create jobs and help preserve the unique culture of the indigenous and small-numbered peoples of the North. 
Director of Russian Arctic National Park speaks about tourism development 
As part of the First International Arctic Media Congress at the Accessible Arctic forum, the Arctic.ru editorial staff spoke to Director of Russian Arctic National Park Alexander Kirilov about tourist activities in the protected area and its main challenges and achievements. 
How do you see the development of tourism in Russian Arctic National Park? How valuable is this industry for the park? 
You know, tourist activities have always been an area of the park's work and the development of ecotourism, plus historical and cultural activities and environmental education. And nothing is better than tourist trips for showing the historical polar stations or base camps of famous expeditions. It certainly helps in preserving and studying historical and cultural sites. 
We also promote environmental awareness among both Russian citizens and foreigners when we show what our country is doing in the Arctic region and how it preserves, studies and protects fragile polar ecosystems. 
Do you know the share of Russian and foreign tourists who visit your national park? 
Up to 10 percent of tourists are Russian, something like 6 ̶8 percent on average. However, last year Russian tourists topped the list, but this was partially due to the children's trip to the Arctic region organized by Atomflot. 
Usually China comes in first place for tourists, at 30 ̶ 35 percent, followed by citizens of Germany, France and other European countries, with 17 ̶ 20 percent. 
Why do you think so few Russians travel to the Arctic region? 
First of all, the price matters, and certainly we should remember that such a weather event as snow is no wonder for Russians. The price plays a very big role because a trip from Russia to Franz Josef Land or to the North Pole costs too much. 
Another factor is that last year a problem arose from a Russian Federation resolution that contains several technical errors: vessels sailing from the ports of Arkhangelsk and Murmansk are not allowed to cross borders, which means that they cannot visit Franz Josef Land. Now there is a discussion about changing the government resolution and allowing ships to access the archipelago. 
Extracting companies to compensate indigenous peoples for losses 
Mikhail Mishustin approved a procedure for agreements to be signed between resource extracting companies and the small-numbered peoples of Russia to compensate for loss or damage to their original environment. These agreements will be signed between companies and regional councils of representatives of small indigenous peoples at the initiative of one side. 
According to the report, previously losses were compensated for individually. The procedure was not regulated. According to the new provision, "extracting companies are to compensate for loss or damage to the small indigenous peoples of Russia based on a special agreement." 
The document may include provisions on compensation for damage to property, actual damage and lost profits. The draft of the corresponding agreement will be submitted for public discussion. After the signing, the agreement will be published on the website of the regional government. 
According to the Russian Cabinet of Ministers, most indigenous peoples live in the North: Siberia and the Far East, where natural resources are actively explored, and hydrocarbons, gold, silver, diamonds, platinum, and ferrous and non-ferrous metals are extracted. 
"These activities go together with the alienation of territories and affect the usual way of life of the locals. The resolution will ensure that indigenous people have the right to compensation," the press service concluded. 
According to the Association of Small Indigenous Peoples of the North, Siberia and the Far East of the Russian Federation, there are 42 such peoples, totaling more than 250,000 individuals. More than a half of them live in the Arctic. 
Oran Young: Nonstandard means of transportation are important for people’s prosperity in the Arctic 
Experts from Russia, Iceland, Norway, the US, Canada, Mongolia, China, Japan, South Korea and Sweden are going to discuss transportation problems in the North and the Arctic at the 2nd International Northern Sustainable Development Forum that will be held online on September 27–30, 2020 in Yakutia. 
The forum will open with a plenary session and continue with thematic sections, roundtable discussions, meetings of the forum’s working groups and international organizations, project presentations, lectures, foresight sessions and workshops. Experts will discuss ways to improve the transportation infrastructure in the North, in particular sea and river ports, airports, roads, railways and trunk pipelines. They will focus on the development of aviation in the Arctic, including small planes, and all-terrain vehicles. 
A famous scientist Oran Reed Young, Professor Emeritus at the Bren School of Environmental Science and Management at the University of California, Santa Barbara, and Director of the Arctic Research Institute (US), has already confirmed his participation in the plenary session. 
I would like to focus my remarks on nonstandard means of transportation, including virtual transportation, which are very important for the prosperity of human communities in the Arctic. This includes such issues as ensuring broadband internet access, developing telemedicine, addressing issues of food safety, promoting the local transportation infrastructure in conditions of melting permafrost, providing aid during natural disasters such as floods and fires, and organizing field research,” Oran Young commented. 
It is noteworthy that this will be the first online event of such a scale in Yakutia. The full forum program and registration details are available on the official website. The forum events will also be streamed live. 
The forum is organized by the government of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), the Northern Forum international organization of northern regions and Northeastern Federal University. 
Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic drafts new state Arctic development program until 2024 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has drafted a new state program for the Russian Arctic’s socioeconomic development in 2021-2024. The program is to receive over 22.6 billion rubles’ worth of federal funding. 
The afore-said Ministry shall implement the new draft program. The document aims to create a competitive environment for implementing investment projects, creating jobs and attracting labor resources to Arctic territories, ensuring legal regulation of the Russian Arctic’s socioeconomic development and creating favorable conditions for the sustainable socioeconomic development of the Russian Arctic’s small indigenous ethnic groups. 
With this in mind, we have formulated two subprograms. The goal of one of them is to promote the creation of new enterprises and jobs in the Arctic zone because the demographic situation is improving in those territories where new jobs are facilitating a stable economic situation. Norilsk, the Yamal-Nenets and Chukotka Autonomous areas are a case in point. 
The relevant legislation has already been passed for creating similar conditions in the entire Arctic zone. Mechanisms stipulated by the first subprogram aim to implement these laws. This implies such mechanisms as infrastructure support, interest rate subsidies and insurance premium compensation,” the Ministry’s press service said. 
The infrastructure support mechanism stipulates federal funding for creating the external transport, energy or any other infrastructure needed to implement various investment projects. 
Insurance premium compensation will allow business managers to reduce wage deductions from 30 to 7.5 percent at state expense, and the same deductions for small and medium-sized businesses will go down from 15 to 3.75 percent. The mechanism of interest rate subsidies for Arctic project implementation loans will allow entrepreneurs to obtain 6.75 percent subsidies annually,” the press release notes. 
The second subprogram includes measures to create favorable conditions for the Arctic’s sustainable socioeconomic development, including the status of small indigenous ethnic groups. The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic and the Agency for the Development of Human Capital in the Far East and the Arctic are drafting a program, due to provide state support for the traditional economic activity of small indigenous ethnic groups. Measures to preserve the languages of these small indigenous ethnic groups are also stipulated. 
Once implemented, the state program will provide the Arctic economy with 490 billion rubles’ worth of investment, and 28,500 jobs will be created. Consequently, the new investment projects will facilitate the social development of local territories. 
A draft nationwide economic reconstruction plan includes a mechanism for streamlining the social infrastructure called the Arctic Social Development Fund. This will make it possible to return up to 50 percent tax, derived from new investment projects, to the budgets of Arctic territories and to use these sums for building or renovating schools, hospitals and kindergartens. 
Yugra governor briefs Putin on main regional projects 
There are plans to store genetic information about small indigenous ethnic groups at a biomedical science and technology center currently under construction in Surgut, the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area. 
"Two weeks ago, Minister of Science and Higher Education Valery Falkov worked in our region at the instruction of Deputy Prime Minister Tatyana Golikova. We agreed that our center could take part in developing a system for storing, studying and processing genetic data. It could also become a unique storage facility and a cryobank for storing data on northern ethnic groups for the purpose of their preservation and development," Governor of Yugra Natalya Komarova said on Thursday during a video conference with President of Russia Vladimir Putin. 
The region's head noted that Yugra was implementing another ambitious project to build a second, 43-km bridge over the Ob River near Surgut. It will link Russian regions with important oil and gas deposits, the Arctic and the Northern Sea Route. 
The science and technology center under construction in Surgut is an infrastructure project designed to create an innovative ecosystem for higher education as well as science and technology entrepreneurship. The center is called on to pool the efforts of over 200 geneticists, biochemists, bioinformation researchers, personalized medicine experts and engineers. The center will include a laboratory of molecular genetics research methods, a cell technology laboratory, a microfluidics technology laboratory, a mass spectrometry laboratory and a bioinformatics laboratory. A biobank will become the main component of the center's infrastructure. 
Russian-Norwegian conference on municipal solid waste management 
Russia and Norway exchanged experience on how to organize a separate collection system for municipal solid waste (MSW). Taking part in the videoconference were representatives of the Norwegian Environment Agency and the Norwegian Consulate General in Murmansk as well as heads of the Murmansk Region Ministry of Energy, Housing and Utilities and Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment. 
The parties presented their views on the issues in question but have not adopted any practical decisions or plans for joint action yet. 
The Norwegian Environment Agency was represented by Andre Kammerud, head of the Section for the High North and Bilateral Relations and co-chair of the pollution reduction working group. In his presentation on legal and administrative aspects of establishing a waste management system in Norway, he noted that since 1992, Norway’s leading waste management strategy had included three main goals: to reduce waste generation, increase the volume of waste disposal and recycling, and ensure the safe disposal of hazardous waste. 
In his remarks, Kammerud added that to date most waste management enterprises (landfills, incinerators and central sorting) belonged to municipalities, but the Norwegian government planned to change this approach and transfer these enterprises to private hands. 
Murmansk Region Minister of Energy, Housing and Utilities Dmitry Latyshev also shared an update on waste management in the region and plans for the near future. 
In particular, this year a project was developed to upgrade a MSW thermal treatment plant in Murmansk. 
We have also set other goals in addition to upgrading the waste incinerator. For example, in 2023 we plan to make the system work in such a way that 99 percent of waste is processed, and at least 52 percent of it is disposed of and only 48 percent buried,” Dmitry Latyshev noted. 
He added that in 2019 and 2020 Murmansk Region processed only 32 percent of waste: 8 percent of it was disposed of, 70 percent buried and 22 percent neutralized. The region generates an average of almost 300,000 metric tons of waste each year. 
In conclusion, the participants noted they were interested in continuing active cooperation and in discussing at the next meeting practical issues that the parties could help each other address. 
The cooperation agreement on environmental protection between the Russian and Norwegian governments signed on September 3, 1992 created the Joint Russian-Norwegian Commission on Environmental Protection. The Russian-Norwegian working group on the prevention of environmental pollution was established as part of the commission to ensure bilateral cooperation. The working group’s activities include implementing the project Waste Management in Murmansk. 
Representatives of environmental organizations such as Bellona and the Clean Arctic Center of Environmental Initiatives were invited to the conference as observers, so that they could evaluate the productiveness of the meeting as well as the parties’ plans proposed there. 
Northern Sustainable Development Forum opens in Yakutsk 
The 2nd Northern Sustainable Development Forum symbolically opened on the Day of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). The program of the first day included 17 events such as online exhibitions, roundtable meetings, research conferences and discussion sessions on topical issues of the sustainable development of the North. 
In particular, the roundtable meeting "Creative Arctic: opportunities and challenges in the era of global transformation" focused on the potential of the region as a space for developing cultural and creative industries. During the 3rd regional research conference "Arctic vector: ethnological expertise — past, present and future," experts representing the leading research organizations of Russia and Yakutia spoke about ethnological expertise in the areas traditionally populated by the indigenous small-numbered peoples of the North in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). 
Other important issues were covered by the roundtable meeting "Cooperation of state and business for the implementation of the Arctic zone development strategy" moderated by Alexander Vorotnikov, Associate Professor of the Department of Public Administration and Public Policy at the Institute of Social Sciences of the Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA) and Coordinator of the Expert Council at the Project Office for the Development of the Arctic. The roundtable participants discussed opportunities for public-private partnerships with respect to implementing the Arctic Development Strategy until 2035, building small and medium-sized businesses in the Arctic and other topics. 
Adapting reindeer husbandry to climate change and globalization was the area of focus during the seminar held as part of the Human in the Arctic section, moderated by Mikhail Pogodayev, the Republic of Sakha's Deputy Minister for the Development of the Arctic and Affairs of the Peoples of the North, and Svein Mathiesen, Professor of the Sami University of Applied Sciences. 
The 1st Northern Youth Forum, which was launched simultaneously, also offered an extensive program, including the roundtable meeting "Preserving the traditional knowledge of the indigenous peoples in the modern conditions of the North," the session "Entrepreneurship, sustainable technologies and innovative ecosystems of the North" and the conference "Mock youth forum of the United Nations Economic and Social Council (ECOSOC)." 
The Homo Mobilis. Ayan Suola exhibition took place online. Organized by the Arctic State Institute of Culture and Arts to coincide with the Northern Sustainable Development Forum, the exhibition included works by 17 artists from several generations representing a wide variety of movements, from social realism to contemporary art. 
All the forum events are held via Zoom and streamed live on the forum's official website and YouTube channel. 
Nikolayev: Poor transport connectivity needs to be addressed to move to a new level of Arctic development 
Head of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev attended the plenary meeting of the Second International Northern Sustainable Development Forum, which is entitled Transport Infrastructure in the North and the Arctic. 
He said that Yakutia, Russia's largest region in area, occupies the largest part of the Russian Arctic and has unique transport potential. Owing to its geographical location, Yakutia can become a bridge to connect different corners of the world in terms of circumpolar transport. 
"Today, the northern Arctic areas with their huge economic potential are becoming a bridgehead for the development of many countries," Nikolayev said. "The State Arctic Development Program priorities, which Russian President Vladimir Putin approved last March, include efforts to preserve the Arctic as a territory of peace, mutually beneficial partnership and a strategic resource base in order to boost economic growth and improve the well-being of the people. These priorities are in line with the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, including the fundamental goal to create reliable infrastructure and facilitate comprehensive and sustainable industrialization." 
He added that the pandemic has resulted in the regional government's ability to appreciate the value of communications and the importance of transport links in a new light. 
"Today, investment in infrastructure, transport, energy supply and information and communications systems is needed to ensure sustainable economic development for the well-being of the people," Nikolayev said. 
According to Nikolayev, a low population density is typical not only of Yakutia's Arctic area but other northern areas in the world as well. "A mere 68,000 people live on a vast territory of 1.6 million square kilometers," he said. "Settlements in one administrative district in the north are sometimes hundreds or even thousands of kilometers apart and they have no reliable transport links between them." 
Nikolayev believes that to move to a new level of Arctic development, there is a common task that forum participants need to address, which is finding a solution to the centuries-old problem of poor transport connectivity. 
"The search for the best solutions should include an exchange of experience and the implementation of joint projects to guarantee success in resolving the issues of spatial development in circumpolar areas," Nikolayev said. 
In addition, the head of Yakutia talked about the region's achievements and said that thanks to the policy of priority development of the Far East and Russia's new Arctic agenda, recent years had seen significant changes in the approach to the issues of insufficient infrastructure in Yakutia. Work is in progress to build the high-tech Zhatai shipyard in Yakutia under the national transport development project while regional authorities have secured support from the federal government for their efforts to enhance aviation connections in the north, so airports are being renovated and new aircraft fleet projects are in the pipeline. 
Aisen Nikolayev said the construction of the Lensky Bridge had been included on the National Program for the Socioeconomic Development of the Far East, which was approved by the Russian government and signed by Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin. 
"A bridge across one of world's greatest rivers [the Lena River] will connect the vast areas of eastern Siberia and the Far East, which account for over one-quarter of the country's entire territory," Nikolayev said. 
Speakers at the plenary meeting also agreed that transport, as one of the key factors in the development of the northern areas and the Arctic, had an important social function, which is to ensure mobility and improve the quality of life of the local population. 
Experts discussed in detail the development of air, rail, sea and motor transport in the northern and Arctic areas in the country and elsewhere, touching on the impact that global warming and climate change are having on the development of transport systems in the north and the Arctic. Proposals by the event participants will be included in the final resolution of the Second International Northern Sustainable Development Forum for further deliberation, while the resolution will be forwarded to the Northern Forum, an international organization. 
North-Eastern Federal University experts study mass media of indigenous peoples of the North 
Representatives of North-Eastern Federal University presented a study on the challenges facing mass media that cover important issues of the indigenous peoples of Yakutia. The study was presented at the Northern Sustainable Development Forum as part of the section Indigenous Media: Strategy of Development, and was conducted together with Moscow State University. 
The study reviewed district newspapers in Yakutia, according to NEFU experts. 
Printed media are the most popular in Yakutia. The republic has over 370 media outlets, with 280 of them being newspapers and magazines. Jointly with MSU, our department is researching the media of indigenous peoples; the studies are devoted to the contemporary media of the republic’s indigenous peoples and research on ulus (district) newspapers. We have conducted an opinion poll among editors and journalists from 24 district newspapers, which is 71 percent of such newspapers in Yakutia,” said Oleg Sidorov, head of the Journalism Department. 
According to the study, most newspapers and magazines appeared in the 1990s, but most of them closed due to a lack of financing. 
But there are other social causes of the decrease in indigenous media. One of the largest problems is the socio-linguistic situation, which requires conditions for the preservation and development of the languages of small-numbered peoples and ethnic groups of the North, as well as the active use of these languages in periodic press and other media,” Oleg Sidorov noted. 
Sidorov also believes that in order to promote indigenous media, journalists need to develop new approaches to work and news presentation. 
The most acceptable way is for cultural and ethnic societies to publish ethnic newspapers and magazines that are registered by Russian law. Their mission is to be a tool for protecting ethnic identity, as well as preserving and developing ethnic languages and traditions: all that helps ethnic groups survive as social communities,” Sidorov said. 
Scientists to study Arctic with nanosatellites 
Scientists will use nanosatellites and UAVs to study the Arctic. Corresponding disciplines will be added to the curriculum of Murmansk State Technical University and the Polar Geophysical Institute (PGI). 
There are also plans to launch an educational and scientific nanosatellite into a polar orbit as part of the project, but the launch date has not yet been announced. 
Nanosatellite projects conducted by mid-latitude universities are usually timed with launches from the ISS or low-latitude orbits, which does not suit the Arctic zone. Bringing into everyday practice the results of the remote diagnostics of geospheres (ionosphere, atmosphere, ocean and permafrost) as well as fires and oil spills in the Arctic is an important task for the megaprojects underway and life in the region (radio communications, the environment and the Northern Sea Route),” the press service of Murmansk State Technical University said. 
The university stressed that the project could serve as a basis for promoting international cooperation with Finnish and Norwegian universities. Preliminary talks have already been held, and both countries’ educational institutions expressed their interest. 
In September, the managements of Murmansk State Technical University and the Polar Geophysical Institute signed a cooperation agreement. After graduation, those with bachelor’s and master’s degrees from Murmansk State Technical University will have an opportunity to undertake postgraduate studies at PGI and carry out advanced research on terrestrial magnetism, the upper polar atmosphere, cosmic rays, auroras and radio wave propagation. In addition, curricula for some areas of training at MSTU will be developed with PGI’s interests in mind. 
Russia to offer Arctic Council countries its own cross-border cooperation program 
Interregional cooperation in the context of the global Arctic was an issue of focus at a regular meeting of the Lena Club held as part of the 2nd Northern Sustainable Development Forum. Alexander Krutikov, Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, noted that the level of practical cooperation between the Arctic regions of Russia and other countries is extremely low, which results in many lost opportunities when it comes to trade and exports of products manufactured in the Russian Arctic. 
During Russia’s chairmanship in the Arctic Council, we plan to offer our regions and our partners in the council a new program for promoting cross-border cooperation and interregional links, including with respect to the small-numbered indigenous peoples. The program will allow the launch of joint projects between the regions of the Arctic states,” said Alexander Krutikov. 
He added that stimulating Russian exports is part of the country’s Arctic Zone Development Strategy until 2035. 
As the Lena Club meeting focused on intensifying interregional cooperation between the Russian Arctic regions, the deputy minister also outlined several vectors for interregional cooperation that are included in the strategy that is awaiting presidential signature. 
The draft strategy provides for revisiting the current service standards. When the population density in the Arctic zone is below one person per square kilometer, the standards that are universal for the entire country cease to function there. Quality social services, healthcare, education, cultural and sports facilities are often beyond people’s reach. Simply reviewing these standards is not enough. People’s direct needs must be taken into account. The new strategy does exactly that. To be specific, one task under the strategy is developing a major plan for social infrastructure facilities in the Arctic based on the actual transport accessibility of respective residential areas,” the deputy minister reported. 
He added that once the plan has been developed, it would become clear that interregional cooperation needed to be expanded because in certain cases transport accessibility makes it more reasonable to get certain services in the neighboring region. The proximity of the Arkhangelsk Region and the Nenets Autonomous Area is the most telling example. 
Another dimension is changing approaches to urban development in the Arctic. The current approaches are not giving enough consideration to the specifics of the Arctic zone. We agreed with our colleagues from the Ministry of Construction that a separate urban development standard will be prepared for the Arctic and this standard will be referred to when providing support under various landscaping programs. Importantly, the statutory sanitary and epidemiological requirements will be reviewed along with the development of the new standard. This is where cooperation between the regions will be extremely important, in order to create a viable and functional standard that meets the interests of the local population,” Alexander Krutikov explained. 
The areas listed by the deputy minister as requiring interregional cooperation include the supply of goods to the northern territories which is not organized in a way so as to ensure availability of affordable products and medication to the Arctic population. 
The northern supply program must be started from scratch and made transparent. Without transparency, we cannot expect any government support. Right now we are looking into the experience of other northern countries. There are certain successful practices that involve building transparent supply chains coming directly from producers, with fixed prices. In these circumstances, the government assumes the major part of the expenses, that is, the cost of logistics. We are currently developing a similar program for the supplies to the Arctic territories. This program will soon be discussed with regional officials,” the deputy minister said. 
Other areas that require regions to cooperate with each other include developing a system of professional training and expanding ship navigation on the Arctic rivers. 
Small businesses in the Extreme North to get advantage in government contract awards 
The Ministry for the Development of the Far East and Arctic has prepared a draft amendment to the federal law on the contract system concerning the procurement of goods, works and services for state and municipal needs. The document was developed as part of the National Program for the Socioeconomic Development of the Far East until 2024 and until 2035 adopted by the Russian government on September 24, 2020. The new amendments will give small businesses registered and operating in the Extreme North and similar areas preferential terms to participate in government procurement of goods or services in the northern territories. 
In particular, if an entrepreneur working in the Arctic offers the lowest price and wins the bidding, the offered price will be raised by up to 15 percent but not above the maximum price stipulated by the procurement documents, so as not to augment the regional expenditures. In this situation, entrepreneurs from the regions of the Extreme North will be able to initially offer a lower bid than their competitors from other regions. 
This support mechanism for small businesses in the northern territories of Russia actually arises from the Labor Code of Russia, which requires employers to establish special northern bonuses – social guarantees and compensation for employees working in the Extreme North regions. Employers fully pay social security contributions on these additional amounts. 
According to expert estimates, employers’ spending on social guarantees, combined with the extreme natural and climatic conditions and underdeveloped infrastructure, increase the cost of starting and running a business in the Extreme North by 50-100 percent compared to other regions in Russia. This makes goods, works or services supplied by small companies operating in the northern territories essentially uncompetitive, and consequently limits such businesses’ access to state and municipal procurement procedures. 
The new legislation will help to level the playing field and also promote socioeconomic growth in the northern territories. This decision has already been supported by the reginal authorities in the Extreme North and similar areas. 
Arctic school of traditional wooden shipbuilding opens in Arkhangelsk 
An Arctic school of traditional wooden shipbuilding opened on Moseyev Island in Arkhangelsk on October 5. The project, a winner of the 2020 contest held by the Presidential Grants Foundation, is aimed at combining cultural development with education during the construction of a koch, a wooden sailing boat for transpolar voyages in Arctic ice conditions that was popular among the Pomors. One of the key goals is to create conditions for teaching the traditional manual shipbuilding skills of the northern people to the younger generation. 
The idea of the school is based on a project launched in Arkhangelsk to build a koch. The school of traditional wooden shipbuilding, which will operate at the project’s site, is unique for the region. The project also includes the establishment of a competency and technology center designed to preserve and promote wooden shipbuilding traditions,” noted Gleb Pletnyov, head of business development at the Arkhangelsk Region Shipbuilding Cluster. 
Enrollment is open to people from the Northwestern Federal District and other Russian regions. Ten students have been already selected from the 40 applicants of different ages and professions from Moscow, St. Petersburg, Petrozavodsk, Perm and, of course, the Arkhangelsk Region. 
A one-year course will be divided into four two-month stages, which will combine theory with practical carpentry and joiner training at the Arkhangelsk shipyard where a koch is being built. 
There is also an event tourism program: everyone interested will be invited to join the project as a volunteer and visit the region’s shipyards. School and university students from the Arkhangelsk Region and youth groups from other regions in the Northwestern Federal District will be able to attend the Open Workshop courses organized during school holidays, during which they will learn the details of building a koch. The project organizers hope that this will fuel their interest in the traditional northern manual professions, which are currently in demand on the market, as well as give them one more reason for living and working in the North. 
In addition, the Shipbuilding and Arctic Marine Engineering Cluster of the Arkhangelsk Region and the Agency for the Development of Human Capital in the Far East and the Arctic are planning to create a database of the school’s graduates and to develop long-term ties with the region’s leading shipbuilding companies that could offer employment to them. 
Canada releases 10 dollar coin featuring an Inuk and a Qulliq 
The Royal Canadian Mint, on behalf of the Bank of Canada, minted a 10 dollar circulating commemorative gold coin in 2020, depicting elements of the culture of the Inuit, an indigenous people of North America. 
The reverse of the coin bears a qulliq, a traditional oil lamp, which is an important symbol of Inuit culture. It represents hearth and home in the Arctic, where it embodies the strength and care provided by the women who nurture its flames. 
Both land and sea provide the materials for the qulliq: rendered seal fat (or blubber) is used as slow-burning fuel, which gets absorbed by tufts of Arctic cotton and moss that serve as lamp wicks. 
Inuit oil lamps are believed to have been used more than 3,000 years ago. Most of them were carved from soapstone, but there are also examples made from a special kind of pottery. The lamps varied in size and shape, but most were either elliptical or crescent-shaped and housed takkuti (wicks), also known as lamp feeders, which were made of wood, particularly willow, soapstone or elephant bones. Qulliqs are illuminated along the edge of the lamp, providing warmth and pleasant light. A piece of seal blubber was left to melt over the lamp, feeding it with more fat, but these lamps had to be constantly tended by cutting the wick so that the lamp did not emit smoke. 
The reverse also depicts traditional stone figures from the Inuit culture. Translated literally, the word "Inuksuk" (singular) means "substitute for a person." Researchers have identified between 8 and 24 types of Inuksuit. Usually it is a separate stone or a pile of stones stacked on top of each other to indicate a road, signal danger, designate a revered place or mark a food cache. 
The obverse features the effigy of Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II by Susanna Blunt, which has been used on the Royal Canadian Mint coins since 2003. 
Specifications: 
Composition — 99.99% pure gold, weight — 1.58 g, diameter — 14 mm, edge — serrated, mintage — 4,000. Artist: Ulaayu Pilurtuut (reverse), Susanna Blunt (obverse). 
Vasily Nebenzya: The Arctic belongs to mankind 
Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary Vasily Nebenzya, Russia's permanent representative to the United Nations, held the first news conference as part of Russia’s presidency of the UN Security Council. 
The ambassador outlined Russian foreign policy’s priorities and plans for its presidency, and answered media questions, including one on the Russian government’s strategy to seize the Arctic.” 
We have never said that the Arctic belongs to Russia. The Arctic, first of all, belongs to mankind. We are saying that it should be an area of cooperation, not confrontation. This is our longstanding position on it… We do not want any military build-up or activity in the Arctic. We do not want it to become another arena of confrontation,” said Nebenzya, expressing surprise. 
Nebenzya added that, in addition to Russia, the US, Canada, Norway and even countries located in completely different regions had interests in the Arctic. For example, South Korea, Japan and China are interested in Arctic sea routes because they are much shorter than those that run along the African coast or via the Suez Canal. 
The Arctic should be an area of mutual and fruitful cooperation for all,” the ambassador concluded. 
Russia launches educational online platform on climate change 
Russia has launched a new online platform изменениеклимата.рф that will allow school and university students, environmental activists and anyone who is interested to receive the latest scientific information on climate change. Anyone can learn how to acclimatize, how to contribute to countering climate change and to adapt to its consequences in everyday life. 
Information for the project was provided by scientists and experts from the Russian and German branches of the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), the German Climate Consortium, the Northern (Arctic) Federal University, the National Arctic Scientific and Educational Consortium, the Institute of Global Climate and Ecology at the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Rosgidromet) and the Russian Academy of Sciences (RAS), the RAS Center for Forest Ecology and Productivity, and the ECA Movement. Special emphasis was placed on climate change in the northern latitudes. 
Information is presented in an interactive format. The project includes several options. 
— Play-based lessons for school students in grades 1-4 and grades 5-11, each of which contains a detailed scenario, animated presentation, cards for play-based assignments, an instruction booklet, a methodological guide and video instructions. In addition to the universal information block for all Russian regions, this section includes lessons on regional climate change in the Arkhangelsk and Murmansk regions and the Nenets Autonomous Area. 
— An international distance course on climate change around the world and the risks and damage from climate change in different countries, in the framework of which leading German experts consider the issue from different perspectives: physical, economic and social. 
— Lectures on the entire range of climate issues — natural and anthropogenic climate change, trends and forecasts for Russia and the world. Some lectures are devoted to specific topics: the Arctic and the Paris Climate Agreement; the Arctic regions of Russia – the Arkhangelsk and Murmansk regions and the Nenets Autonomous Area; and also to subjects like Forest and Climate” and Adapting to Climate Change.” 
— An online venue for NGOs and activists (to be launched soon). 
Climate change is one of the most serious global issues today, especially for Russia and its northern regions. In the past 20 years, the number of dangerous meteorological phenomena in Russia has doubled, while the rise in temperature is about 2.5 times higher than the global average. These trends will continue and become stronger in the 21st century. Besides the changes in nature, the lifestyles of people will see changes as well. This primarily concerns the residents of the northern areas. So, today it is important for everyone to understand the issue and start acting on their understanding,” said Andrei Kopytov, project coordinator at the Arkhangelsk branch of the Barents Department at WWF Russia. 
Arctic ministry approves members of the Public Council of Russia’s Arctic zone 
On October 8, Deputy Minister of the Russian Federation for the Development of the Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov signed an order on approving the members of the Public Council of Russia’s Arctic zone. 
The council will include 19 people: representatives of the public chambers of the northern territories, regional associations of indigenous minorities, regional chambers of commerce and industry, the rector of the Lomonosov Northern (Arctic) Federal University, and the vice-rector of the Ammosov North-Eastern Federal University. 
The council will have the following key goals: to control compliance with the observance of the rights and interests of the indigenous minorities of the North and to monitor the impact of current investment projects on the environment of the Russian Arctic. 
In ensuring the sustainable development of the northern areas, we must above all care for the local people. The Arctic is a special territory that has been inhabited by different peoples since ancient times. They engage in traditional economic activities and their interests must be protected. The Public Council can help the state in this respect. It is important for the council to be active, work with people and really be on their side,” said Mr Krutikov. 
At the first session, the members of the council unanimously adopted a draft state program of the socio-economic development of the Russian Arctic. Its main goals are to ensure competitive conditions for implementing investment projects, creating new jobs, attracting labor to the Arctic territories, adopting legal regulations for the socio-economic development of the Russian Arctic and provide conditions for the sustainable socio-economic progress of the indigenous small-numbered peoples living in the Russian Arctic. 
Based on these goals, we have drafted two sub-programs. One is aimed at stimulating the creation of new companies and jobs in the Arctic zone, and the other covers measures to create conditions for the sustainable socio-economic development of the Russian Arctic, including the indigenous minorities,” said Mr Krutikov at the Public Council session. 
In addition, the council members endorsed the establishment of several profile commissions at the ministry’s Public Council. In the future, they will work out and offer different initiatives to the ministry. Thus, the participants created commissions on tourism, green financing and the environment, comprehensive development of the Far East and the Arctic, network education, and academic mobility, to name a few. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic is open to dialogue with the Public Council and will cooperate with it in different formats on a permanent basis,” said Minister for the Development of the Far East and Arctic Alexander Kozlov. 
The renewed ministerial Public Council met on July 24, 2020 for the first time. It is headed by Alexander Tochenov, executive secretary of the Presidential Council for the Development of Civil Society and Human Rights. 
Polar explorers see polar bear family reunite 
Russian Arctic National Park rangers Vadim Zakharyin, Vladimir Alsufyev and Oleg Valkov shared an unusual story of a polar bear cub named Umka they saw. 
The story began in early September, when a teenage bear cub started to come to our home. Back then, biologists of Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution worked with us on Novaya Zemlya. The scientists determined the bear’s age and believed he got lost: at this age, bears don’t walk alone,” said Vadim Zakharyin, senior ranger and head of the polar station on Cape Zhelaniya (southern cluster of Russian Arctic National Park). 
The rangers saw the cub earlier with a female bear and another cub further south, on Cape Serebryanikov, when they patrolled the area. It was unclear why Umka the cub (this is the name the rangers gave him) left his family. They took care of the cub because adult bears constantly tried to attack him. 
A dead beluga washed ashore near our base, and the cub was eating it. However, adult bears also wanted to partake of it. Once we even had to rush to save the cub and scare away the bears that started to attack him,” Vadim Zakharyin added. 
However, the story has a happy ending. 
One day we woke up, looked out the window to check on Umka, and saw a large female bear with another cub near him. We don’t know if it was his mother or just a random bear with her cub, but they stayed together and it was clear they were getting used to each other,” said ranger Oleg Valkov. 
Now all three bears live together and even come visiting. 
We are happy that Umka has found a family and we leave him knowing everything will be fine,” Vadim Zakharyin concluded. 
The Russian Arctic National Park rangers are completing the field season and are due back on the mainland in the second half of October. 
Kurchatov Institute develops autonomous hybrid power system 
Specialists from the National Research Center Kurchatov Institute have developed an autonomous hybrid power generating system that can be used to power small-scale sites like polar meteorological stations and cell towers in the Arctic. 
According to Kurchatov Institute President’s Aide Alexander Frolov, building power lines in the Arctic is impossible, thus the need to turn to renewable energy sources, but this comes up against the problem of storing the generated power. To solve this problem, the institute developed a kilowatt-level autonomous hybrid power generating system that uses solar, wind power and fuel elements, and also contains accumulators. Several units have already been put into service, although hundreds will be needed for the Northern Sea Route, to power polar meteorological stations, cell towers and other Arctic facilities. 
These systems seem to be quite competitive. Even if you need to power a relatively large site, for example a settlement, it could be worth integrating a small NPP with generating units of this kind in order to offset the instability and lower power density of the renewable energy sources with a reliable and resilient power generating unit,” Alexander Frolov pointed out. 
The Kurchatov Institute presented this project at the International Exhibition and Conference for Shipbuilding and Equipment and Technologies for Development of the Arctic and Continental Shelf (OMR 2020), held in St. Petersburg on October 6-9. 
Sergei Lavrov and Jeppe Kofod discuss further cooperation in the Arctic 
On October 9, Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov held talks with his Danish counterpart, Jeppe Kofod. They discussed the outlook of bilateral relations, cooperation in the Arctic, and urgent international and regional issues. In his opening remarks, Mr. Lavrov emphasized that this meeting was a good opportunity to continue the dialogue started on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly in September 2019. I know that you have thoroughly prepared for today’s talks and announced them in the press more than once. We are also interested in discussing the reasons for the current difficulties in Russian-Danish relations and the prospects of developing them in the interests of our nations,” said the Russian foreign minister. 
Mr. Kofod’s visit was initially scheduled for early 2020, but it was postponed due to the coronavirus pandemic. As the Russian Foreign Ministry’s comment published on the eve of his visit notes, Moscow considers the arrival of the Danish foreign minister as a sign of Copenhagen’s willingness to openly discuss the current state of affairs and normalize bilateral dialogue. 
Russia to send honorary consul to Greenland 
During talks on October 9, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and his Danish counterpart Jeppe Kofod confirmed a tentative agreement to institute the position of Honorary Consul of the Russian Federation in Greenland. 
We are neighbors. We want to cooperate. We have stable economic and cultural ties with the Faroe Islands and Greenland. Danish leaders are aware of this. The fact that our request for support of a nominee for the position of Honorary Consul in Greenland was fairly prompt shows that Copenhagen is interested in developing relations with us. We appreciate this,” said Sergei Lavrov at the news conference after the meeting. He also thanked his Danish colleagues and added that the nominee had already been approved and that only bureaucratic formalities remained. 
Mr Lavrov noted that Russia is interested in a stable and secure situation on the borders with its neighbors. He recalled the August incident when a Russian warplane was accused of violating Danish air space for a few minutes. 
Let me repeat, that our military strictly follow international standards. We proposed to conclude an agreement with our Danish partners on avoiding unintentional incidents in the sea and in the skies above them. If such an agreement were concluded we would have a mechanism for responding to the concerns and suspicions of either side. I will point out that we have such agreements with all of our neighbors — the coastal Arctic countries, except Denmark. Likewise, we have mechanisms of contact between the militaries of all our neighbors, including Norway, Sweden and Finland,” said Mr. Lavrov. 
Kunstkamera provides insight into Taimyr nomad and Ekven Eskimo culture 
On October 9, the Taimyr Nomads: Culture, Art and Craftsmanship exhibition opened on the second floor of the tower of the Peter the Great Museum of Anthropology and Ethnography (the Kunstkamera), the Russian Academy of Sciences in St. Petersburg. The exhibition is dedicated to the 90th anniversary of the establishment of the Taimyr (Dolgano-Nenets) National Territory and was organized in cooperation with the Taimyr House of Folk Art. It is a showcase of works by contemporary Taimyr artists inspired by the traditional culture of two small indigenous peoples, Dolgans and the Nganasan people. 
Some of the remarkable exhibits include the paintings of Dolgan artist Boris Molchanovmade from rovduga [soft buckskin, the skin of a male reindeer – Ed.], which was formerly used to make summer chums [tents of skins]. The decades–old skins that absorbed the smoke of hearths, people’s voices, the sounds of tambourines and old legends have turned into artistic canvasses. Works by Nganasan graphic artist Motyumyaku Turdagin describe the daily life of the Nya [the way the Nganasan people call themselves – Ed.], while works by two Dolgan cousins, each called Nikolai Kirgizov, and Nganasan artist Alexei Chunachar are further proof of the inimitable craftsmanship of northern bone carvers. From the earliest times, the indigenous Arctic dwellers carved various household items, decorations and parts of reindeer sledge out of mammoth tusks and reindeer heads. Today, the items created by bone carvers are not seen as household items anymore but rather as works of art, changing the perception of the powerful centuries-old tradition. 
The exhibition will be on until December 2020. 
* * * 
Another temporary exhibition run by the Kunstkamera is, Myths and Things: The Old Art of the Ekven Eskimos. This exhibition features items that were made by the distant ancestors of contemporary Eskimos, who are the world’s northernmost people that settled along the Bering Strait coast as early as the first centuries in our time. Not so long ago, there was a village, Ekven, in the area where bold marine mammal hunters had lived for many centuries. 
They lived in full harmony with nature; they were hard-working, daring and resourceful: they made unsinkable fast boats, rotating harpoons and ingenious tools. For example, they made hunting gear and household items from the bones of animals, usually from walrus tusks, decorating them with delicate patterns. Many bone carvings are, indeed, masterpieces. 
According to ancestors’ customs, things remained with their owner after his or her death. Ekven dwellers buried their kinsmen together with their belongings on the slopes of two hills near the settlement. Today, this area, known as the Ekven Burial Ground, is a unique Arctic archaeological landmark. Researchers believe that there are at least 500 graves in the area; so far, 330 graves have been found during archaeological digging at the site. What is amazing about them is the abundance, variety and the good condition of the hunting gear and household items that belong in different – Punuk and Birnirk – archaeological cultures and the earliest Old Bering Sea and Okvik cultures. 
People visiting the exhibition will get a rare opportunity to see old Eskimo hunting and fishing gear and household items from the museum collection. Each exhibit is unique, with a story behind it, while timeless myths are hidden in ornamental patterns. 
There are also plans to screen, while the exhibition is on, footage from a film by director Alexei Vakhrushev. Born in Chukotka, he is well acquainted with the life of the Eskimos, the descendants of old-time hunters. The animated documentary The Book of the Sea was filmed in 2018 and tells the story of the life of those who go out to sea to hunt in the cold water of the Bering Strait. Although the story is set in our time, audiences will be able to see that the connection with ancestors and their stories and myths continues and gets passed from one generation to another. 
The museum is also prepared to keep schoolchildren occupied with several activities specially designed for them, including the following: 
— Games based on the exhibits on display (6+). You can join children to help a hunter prepare for hunting and see various animals carved into the bone that decorate the hunting gear (an event available to entry ticket holders on Saturdays and Sundays from 11 am until 5 pm). 
— Rope games (6+). Like other ethnicities, the Eskimos made rope figures not only for fun but also to describe and maintain the world order. Activities involving rope often went hand in hand with the narration of myths and fairy-tales. People will master techniques of working with rope and learn to create figures that go well together with Eskimos’ traditional way of life (an event available to entry ticket holders on Saturdays and Sundays from 11 am until 5 pm). 
— Making sculptures out of clay while listening to fairy-tales (for families with children aged between 6 and 12). The reading of Eskimo fairy-tales and making sculptures will allow you to gain an insight into folklore characters of subtle mind and imagine how they feel, express your impression of the tales and better understand the Eskimos (on Sundays – except October27 and November 3 – at 12 noon and 3 pm; booking is required). 
—Why Does an Archaeologist Need a Microscope? (for youngsters aged11 to14) is a class in traceology (the study of traces) from the Face to Face course for schoolchildren to learn about how and why archaeologists study traces on items from excavations and what information dents, incisions, polished surfaces and scratches can provide. They will learn about experiments carried out by scientists and examine archaeological artifacts on display at the museum through the prism of traceology. The class is taught by archaeologist and curator of the exhibition Natalya Aleksashenko (on Sunday, October 20; tickets to attend the class required). 
Cubic meters of waste in Arctic can be turned into fuel 
Tomsk Polytechnic University (TPU) specialists have established that over 70,000 cubic meters of industrial waste produced in the Arctic and Sub-Arctic Russian zones is suitable to be turned into fuel for thermal power plants (TPP). 
This kind of waste is not recycled but kept in the Arctic and Sub-Arctic. It may be recovered and turned into different types of fuel. Thus, barrels that used to contain POL may be cleaned, and what’s accumulated used to produce liquid composite fuel. Fuel may also be produced using plastic. Instead of burning it, it may be used as a fuel component,” said employee of the TPU Research School of High Energy Physics Galina Nyashina. 
During research, experts studied articles published in Russian and foreign scientific journals in 2016–2019. They established that over 7,000 cubic meters of fit-for-use POL waste (in barrels) and over 64,000 cubic meters of solid domestic waste, such as paper, sawdust, building materials and plastic, to name a few, have accumulated in the Far North, the Arctic and adjacent regions. 
Nyashina noted that using this waste in different combinations would make it possible to produce both eco-friendly fuel (by using woodchips and sawdust), as well as high energy fuel based on oil products. In addition to this, the construction of a recycling plant in the Arctic will help resolve the environmental problem, provide energy for the macro region and create additional power supplies for local TPPs. 
Speaking at the meeting of the Arctic Council in 2019, President of Russia Vladimir Putin called the threat to the environment the main problem in the Arctic and noted that these risks will grow with the potential economic development of the Arctic zone. He added that Russia carries out its projects in the Arctic according to the latest environmental standards and will continue working in this vein. 
Haze over Arctic forests disrupts photosynthesis 
Arctic obscuration (or haze) is an optical effect observed in the northern latitudes. It is produced by different aerosol pollutants — both industrial emissions and natural factors. Scientists believe this effect has been strong since the mid-20th century when postwar industrial production recovered all around the world. 
This hazy air is a pollutant in the atmosphere and disrupts one more important process in subarctic ecosystems – the photosynthesis of trees, thereby hampering their growth. This was reported by Vladimir Shishov, one of the authors of a study on the influence of industrial emissions on subarctic forest ecosystems. Shishov is head of the faculty of Mathematic Methods and IT at Siberian Federal University (SFU). 
The obscuration effect has reduced the amount of solar radiation on the Earth’s surface. This trend has been observed in forests over a vast territory — from the Ob River estuary (Western Siberia) to the Khatanga River (Taymyr Peninsula). Mathematical modeling of tree growth that takes the obscuration effect into account conducted by scientists showed a very high correlation between these two natural phenomena. 
We tried to connect the reduction of incoming solar energy with the tree growth using the Russian Vaganov-Shashkin model, which is one of the most quoted in this area in the world scientific community. We modified our model to show that including the obscuration effect considerably improves the modeling of tree growth, making evaluations very accurate,” said the scientist. 
To reveal the reasons for the emergence of the haze over the Arctic, Russian experts contacted their foreign colleagues that study the physics of the atmosphere. Evidently, aerosols appeared over subarctic forests for several reasons. 
First, this is caused by natural phenomena. The atmosphere may be obscured by large volcanic eruptions or strong wildfires. Second, the anthropogenic factor or the world’s vigorous industrial activities play a major role as well,” Shishov said. 
Alexander Kirdyanov, senior research associate at the FSU laboratory of ecosystem biogeochemistry and an associate at the Sukachyov Forest Institute of the RAS Siberian Branch, noted that the fog over boreal forests is not permanent. If you look at the maps that show observations of sulphur dioxide emissions, you can see that there are very few companies in the Arctic that pollute the atmosphere. The bulk of such companies are located in Southeast Asia with contributions from North America and Europe,” he explained. It is their industrial activities that produce the Arctic aerosol haze based on the specific air circulation patterns in the Northern Hemisphere. 
The air masses in the upper layers of the atmosphere can blow at speeds of up to 300 km per hour. These aerosols can rise fairly high and move from the equator to the North Pole in a fairly short span of time,” Shishov said. 
According to scientists, the slowing of taiga forest tree growth runs contrary to expectations, given the recorded warming all over the world, and particularly in the Arctic. Northern trees are very sensitive to air temperature, and normally higher temperatures should facilitate tree growth, thereby enhancing the productivity of subarctic forests. But the Arctic haze alters the picture. This new variable must be considered in forecasting the tree growth under the impact of global warming. 
In the past 2000 years, most high resolution reconstructions of temperature change are based on indirect sources of information, primarily the parameters of the annual rings of the trees that are most susceptible to temperature, especially in the northern areas. Such reconstructions are the basis for forecasting temperature dynamics in the future,” Alexander Kirdyanov explained. 
The identified discrepancies between temperature increase and tree growth call into question the accuracy of reconstruction models and temperature forecasts based on annual tree ring studies. Our research offers a solution to this problem,” he said. 
Let’s recall that the influence of aerosols on trees often kills them. Since the 1970s, boreal forests have died on about 24,000 square meters in the Arctic. According to scientists, by the early 2000s, the growth rate of trees in boreal forests is half of what it was in the 1960s. Aerosol pollution in the northern latitudes can be eliminated only by the concerted effort of all countries that produce air emissions. 
Only the international community working together can save the Arctic from the phenomenon that is described in our article. It could draft a solution that would make it possible to considerably reduce the load on Arctic and subarctic ecosystems,” Shishov summed up. 
This study was conducted with a grant from the Russian Science Foundation. The results of the study are published in the journal, Ecology Letters. 
Unprecedented warming over the last 3,000 years recorded in the Arctic 
Climatologists from the University of Massachusetts Amherst and the University of Quebec have been studying the sedimentary strata at the bottom of South Sawtooth Lake, located on Ellesmere Island in the Canadian Arctic. Ideally preserved ‘annual layers’ of this lake contain titanium minerals, released during centuries of weathering of rocks. By measuring the concentration of titanium in the layers, the scientists determined the annual relative changes in temperature and atmospheric pressure in the region. 
The lowest temperatures in the Arctic were fixed between 1400 and 1600 AD, a time that is named the Little Ice Age by historians, and the highest temperatures have been recorded in the last ten years. Over the past three millennia, the Arctic has never been as warm as it is right now, and this warming is happening two or three times faster than on the rest of the planet. 
Recently, high atmospheric pressure prevails in this region during the summer months with clear skies and temperatures reaching 20 degrees Celsius persisting for many days or even weeks in a row. This had an irreversible impact on snow cover, glaciers and permafrost,” writes co-author Francois Lapointe of the Climate System Research Center. 
According to the study, the surface waters of the Atlantic Ocean have become abnormally warm since about 1995. In 2019, the Greenland ice sheet lost over 500 billion tons of mass, and this record was associated with an unprecedentedly sustained high atmospheric pressure. 
The authors believe this can be due to the superposition of the global warm-phase temperature increase of the Atlantic multidecadal oscillation (AMO), a cyclic climatic phenomenon. When temperatures are low over the North Atlantic, lower atmospheric pressure is observed in most of the Canadian Arctic and Greenland, and vice versa. At the same time, at low temperatures, snow melts more slowly, the concentration of titanium in the sediments is higher, and lower titanium contents indicate warmer years. 
Researchers still do not know the exact duration of the AMO cycles, since instrumental observations began only 160 years ago, and one cycle lasts at least 60 years. But, according to the authors, if in the next year or two the AMO does not shift towards a cooler phase, next summer there can be expected to be even more intense melting of the ice cover of the Canadian Arctic and Greenland, which will threaten a further rise in the level of the World Oceans and produce other unpleasant environmental consequences. 
By analyzing these sustainable ties, we managed to understand how the surface temperature of the Atlantic Ocean has changed over the past 2,900 years – this is the most complete record to date,” said Francois Lapointe. 
His colleague Pierre Francus of the National Research Institute (INRS) at the University of Quebec added: Our study will enable climatologists to better understand the mechanisms of long-term changes in the behavior of the Atlantic Ocean.” 
The researchers also noted that the results obtained correlate well with other independent data obtained on the bottom sediments of the Atlantic Ocean near Iceland and off the coast of Venezuela, which confirms the reliability of the chosen temperature assessment criterion. 
The study results are published in the journal Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences. 
Comfortable environment to be created in Arctic cities according to special standards 
The State Commission for Arctic Development has taken the initiative to draft standards for Arctic cities under the program of creating a comfortable urban environment. A special working group was set up at the Ministry of Construction, Housing and Utilities and the Ministry for the Development of the Far East and Arctic to collect proposals and draft criteria. 
The federal project on creating a comfortable urban environment has proved effective in Russia in general. But we cannot forget about the Arctic cities which have special requirements. The implementation of new comprehensive solutions will support the development of the Russian Arctic, create favorable conditions and improve the living standards of Russian people. The integration of all these nuances within one comprehensive paper will significantly improve the development of Arctic cities,” said Deputy Minister of Construction, Housing and Utilities Maxim Yegorov. 
The approaches to the development of residential areas in the Arctic are very different from those used in a moderate climate. So, the solutions that have proved effective in other Russian cities may not work in the Arctic due to its climate. Thus, the rules of a comprehensive approach to the development of territories must take into consideration the prevalence of cold temperatures, strong winds and polar nights. They must also conform to the regional demographic situation and take into account rotational work systems. 
The current program for creating a comfortable urban environment is one of the most distinctive for city residents. Parks, squares and courtyards are being improved and people are acquiring their favorite recreation zones. Creating the required public space in the Arctic is a fairly complicated task and there must be a separate subprogram on solutions to improve Arctic cities,” emphasized Vladimir Panov, Rosatom State Corporation’s special representative for Arctic development and deputy chairman of the State Commission for Arctic Development. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic fully supports the idea of creating a special urban environment for Arctic cities and that standards for improving residential areas must differ from other regions of the country. 
Every region is unique and it is hard to apply the same standards to all of them. The climate exerts a serious influence on the improvement of residential areas. Therefore, the main challenge is to make northern cities more cozy and comfortable to live in. So, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic is fulfilling a special instruction from Deputy Prime Minister Yury Trutnev to improve the city of Arkhangelsk. The regional authorities are now fine-tuning the concept for developing the urban landscape. When they are done, all projects will be submitted to the ministry,” said Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov. 
Representatives of the departments of the regions with difficult climate conditions, state corporations with companies in the Arctic, universities and experts on urban development, planning and design will be involved in drafting the special standards. The first meeting of the working group may take place in October. 
Yury Trutnev: The first step has been taken 
Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev held an online meeting of the Presidium of the State Commission for Arctic Development. The participants discussed providing infrastructure support for investment projects, supporting businesses via development institutions, ensuring navigation along the Northern Sea Route, and creating an international Arctic station. 
In particular, Yury Trutnev noted that a package of federal laws on state support for entrepreneurial activities in the Arctic came into force on August 28, and a system of incentives was put in place. The entire Russian Arctic has, in fact, become one large economic area,” he said. Any entrepreneur willing to invest at least 1 million rubles in a new project can obtain the status of an Arctic zone resident. We did our best to make the application process as transparent, straightforward and hassle-free for businesses as possible. To this end, the processes underlying interaction between the investor and the management company and the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic were made part of a dedicated electronic office, and all documents are submitted in electronic form.” 
To date, 133 applications from investors for a total amount of 198 billion rubles are being reviewed. Five entrepreneurs have obtained the status of an Arctic zone resident, and they have signed binding agreements for the total of 15.3 billion rubles. 
According to the deputy prime minister, a reduction in insurance premiums is one of the key incentives anticipated by Arctic businesses. In early September, the Russian Government adopted a resolution to subsidize insurance premiums paid by the Arctic zone residents for the newly created jobs. The final rate will be 7.5 percent, and 3.25 percent for small and medium-sized businesses. According to Yury Trutnev, these are the best terms available in Russia.” 
He also noted that the Arctic regions continue to work on the incentive system’s regional component. Tax breaks on revenue, property and land, as well as a simplified taxation system are being adopted. I would like the governors to speed up this work and adopt the laws by the end of the month,” the deputy prime minister said. 
For his part, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Kozlov added that the ministry is about to complete drafting a revised version of the state programme for developing the Arctic zone. The Russian Government resolved to finance it in the amount of 17 billion rubles in the next three years, which is 50 times more than the amount provided in the current three-year budget. 
Also, as part of the national economic recovery plan, it is planned to create an Arctic Development Fund. According to Yury Trutnev, this is not a new development institution, but a mechanism that will be used to redirect 50 percent of the federal tax revenue from new investment projects in the Arctic to the socioeconomic development of the Arctic regions. 
The meeting participants also reviewed investment projects that are seeking government support for building infrastructure. Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov noted that on March 18, the Russian Government approved the requirements that investment projects have to meet to be entitled to government support to build infrastructure. The requirements include: 
- the project cost must exceed 300 million rubles; 
- the project must provide for creating new jobs by building new industrial facilities or upgrading existing ones; 
- the project must be registered and located in Russia’s Arctic zone; 
- the tax proceeds of the investment project must compensate for the subsidy within a maximum of 10 years from the date of selecting the project. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has already publicly reviewed investment project bids and selected projects that are eligible for government support. At its meeting, the Presidium of the State Commission for Arctic Development chose six investment projects with overall investment to top 206 billion rubles. 
In particular, the project for the development of the platinum group metals deposit Fyodorova Tundra provides for building two opencast mines to dig ore and an ore mill to produce ore concentrate, as well as the electrification of the western part of the Lovozyorsky District. Private investment in the project is expected to reach 82.8 billion rubles while the Government will allocate 6.13 billion rubles in infrastructure support. 
The Pavlovskoye investment project aims to ensure that the development of the Pavlovskoye lead and zinc deposit located in the north of Yuzhny Island of the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago is economically effective. It is planned to build a lead-and-zinc ore mining and processing facility with a capacity of 3.5 million metric tons of ore a year. Mooring facilities will be built to ship finished products to final customers. Private investment will total 71.6 billion rubles while government support will amount to 7 billion rubles. 
The Government approved infrastructure support for the project to develop the Syradasaisky coal deposit; the estimated area of the deposit ranks among Russia’s largest coal deposits in terms of scale and coal quality. A marine coal terminal will be built to facilitate the shipment of coal concentrate produced in the area on sea vessels. This project will help to ship nine million metric tons of cargo along the Northern Sea Route, beginning in 2025. Private investment will reach 41.4 billion rubles while government support will amount to 4.55 billion rubles. 
A specialized bulk cargo terminal is to be built in the sea port of Murmansk. The terminal is designed for unloading mineral fertilizers and apatite concentrate from railway cars, their short-term storage and loading on sea vessels. Rosmorflot has included the project in its long-term development program. Under the Government’s directive, the terminal construction became a part of the roadmap for territorial planning in federal transportation and federal highways. Private investment in the project will amount to 13.36 billion rubles along with 1.19 billion rubles of state support. 
There are plans to build a modern industrial facility to produce salmon and trout seed material using a recirculation aquaculture system in Retinskoye, Kola District in the Murmansk Region. Private investment in it will make up 2.69 billion rubles coupled with 540 million rubles of state support. 
Also under consideration was a technical upgrading project of the Vitino sea port and the Belomorskaya oil delivery terminal, which will become the major employer in the town of Beloye More and will provide fuel for its social infrastructure. The volume of private investment will amount to 2.63 billion rubles whereas state support will total 300 million rubles. 
The meeting’s agenda also included the issue of investor support from development institutions. CEO of the Far East Development Fund (FEDF) Alexei Chekunkov reported that the fund will make its first investments in Arctic projects before the year’s end. Thus, up to 10 billion rubles may go to the Kovdor ore deposit development in the Murmansk Region. The project was proposed by EuroChem Group’s Kovdorsky mining complex. The fund’s involvement in the project will help retain the backbone enterprise, which provides jobs for a half of the residents in Kovdor, a one-company town, and ensure its efficient performance. FEDF is also set to support the expansion of the Kirov subsidiary of Apatit JSC, the major employer of the town of Kirovsk, Murmansk Region. The fund will invest up to 7 billion rubles in expanding the production of the operating pit and building a new adit level and a new underground mine. The project was launched by the PhosAgro Group. The upgrading and construction of new production facilities aim at boosting the extraction of apatite-nepheline ore to be processed into high-quality apatite concentrate used in mineral fertilizer production. The implementation of the projects in the Murmansk Region is expected to have a significant socioeconomic impact for the Arctic region. The FEDF-assisted enterprises to be built will create 1,134 new jobs. 
The development of Russian Arctic National Park was also discussed. The first comprehensive program for its development has been drafted for three years (2021–2024) and will receive 2.3 billion rubles from the federal budget. The park’s director, Alexander Kirilov, noted that this is the northernmost and Russia’s largest specially protected area, covering 8.8 million hectares. The park is located on two polar archipelagos in the Arkhangelsk Region — Novaya Zemlya and Franz Josef Land. Upgrading the tourist infrastructure is an important task for developing this territory. 
Deputy General Director of the Roscosmos State Corporation Mikhail Khailov reported on ensuring navigation along the Northern Sea Route (NSR) with remote sensing of the Earth’s surface (radiolocation) in 2021–2022. He noted that Roscosmos intends to develop Kondor-FKA and Obzor-Radar observation satellites, ground-based receivers and facilities for processing targeted information and bringing it to consumers under the plan for the development of the NSR infrastructure until 2025 and the national federal space program. Starting in 2022, this will make it possible to provide interested consumers with the latest domestic radiolocation information, products and services on its basis along the NSR regardless of the observation conditions — nebulosity or brightness,” he explained. 
Rector of the Moscow Institute of Physics and Technology (MIPT state university) Nikolai Kudryavtsev reported on a plan to build and open the Snezhinka (Snowflake) international Arctic station during Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. He said that its construction was unanimously supported by all Arctic countries at a meeting of the Arctic Council’s working group last June. This will be the world’s first zero-carbon Arctic complex that is expected to use only hydrogen energy technology and renewable energy sources. Nikolai Kudryavtsev said MIPT is carrying out a program of applied research and new technology development for the Arctic. Its results will lay the foundation for research at the future international Arctic station. We focus our agenda not on the problems of climate change but on the practical introduction of green energy technology. We emphasize the synergy of technology under one roof. I’m referring to energy, communications, transportation, medicine, agriculture, hydrometeorology, climate and environmental protection, to name a few,” specified the rector. 
Yury Trutnev instructed the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to study the project and submit in one week its proposals on funding the beginning of the design work and the construction of the Snezhinka international Arctic station. 
We just started our work on the socioeconomic development of the Russian Arctic. We have spent time drafting laws that allow us to help business, support new investment projects and move forward. We have taken the first step. Now we must find investment projects, create the conditions for their implementation, build new plants, strengthen the economy of the Arctic, and develop its infrastructure. We must continue this work with intensive efforts,” said Yury Trutnev, summing up the results of the meeting. 
Scientists: Polar bears and walruses can be friends 
Scientists have been observing polar bears on the Taimyr Peninsula for the past few years, and they have noted changes in their customary behavior, according to Pavel Kochkaryov, Director of Central Siberian Reserve in the Krasnoyarsk Territory. 
For example, polar bears have started entering walrus breeding grounds on the Laptev Sea and Kara Sea coasts. Walruses no longer fear these predators who now often mingle with them. 
The walruses appear to be fine. On our last visit, we sighted five bears in the breeding ground. One of them was sitting, surrounded by walruses. I even had the impression that a walrus was lying on the bear’s flank. We are witnessing a more pronounced symbiosis involving ‘shepherd’ bears and ‘sheep’ walruses. We were really surprised to see five bears guarding a large breeding ground with about 400 walruses,” Kochkaryov noted. The predators eat dead walruses and therefore act like real caretakers of the Arctic. 
In turn, Ivan Mizin, Deputy Director for Research at Russian Arctic National Park, added that polar bears often have trouble fighting huge walruses. In many cases, bears find it easier to wait until these animals die of natural causes. 
In principle, this is a normal survival strategy because there are many dead animals at large breeding grounds with several thousand walruses, but a bear will always attack a smaller walrus whenever possible,” he added. 
Researchers note that they are still unable to answer many questions regarding polar bears. There are plans to monitor polar bear populations all over the Arctic, and a strategy for saving polar bears is also being finalized. 
Digitalization of Russia’s Arсtic regions is a major strategic goal 
Konstantin Dolgov, Deputy Chai of the Federation Council Committee on Economic Policy and representative of the executive government body of the Murmansk Region, held a working session via videoconference on preparations for an offsite meeting of the Council for the Development of Digital Economy at the Federation Council. The session on developing digitalization in the Arctic regions will take place in Murmansk on November 10. 
The senator recalled that much has been done in this area in the past few years. Russia is carrying out national projects aimed at digitalizing the economy and the social sector but digitalization of the Arctic regions remains a major strategic goal for Russia. 
In March 2020, the President signed an executive order on the basic precepts for Russia’s state policy in the Arctic until 2035. It included the theme of digitalization. In addition, the strategy for developing the Russian Arctic zone and ensuring national security through 2035 has been drafted. Both fundamental documents note the importance of digitalization. This includes various areas: from communications to urban infrastructure development,” he said. 
The senator said that there are still many challenges despite the work done, primarily the problem of digital inequality. The introduction of digital technology entails additional financial and organizational difficulties in the Extreme North. It is also necessary to create conditions for attracting investment for the development of the digital infrastructure there. 
Mr Dolgov emphasised that it is necessary to provide the population with equal-opportunity access to the digital infrastructure, first and foremost, beyond the administrative centers. This is one of our priorities, and we will certainly focus on it,” he said. 
Thus, the senators intend to propose that the Government consider the issue of an open economic zone for the Russian Arctic regions. They also want to suggest including into the federal project on the information infrastructure that is part of the Digital Economy of the Russian Federation national project, a package of measures to increase the density of the fiber optic communication system in the Arctic regions. They also propose that the Government consider lowering rates on internet access via satellite for the Russian Arctic regions by introducing mechanisms for evening out consumer costs on satellite communications based on average national rates and providing federal budget allocations for this purpose. 
In addition, the senators suggest creating a network of ‘intelligent centers’ for super speed processing and storage of data based on Russian software and hardware complexes, drafting a comprehensive tele-medical system for the Russian Arctic zone and the Northern Sea Route and studying the issue of removing barriers for information exchange through the Smart City and Safe City systems and subsystems, the hydrometeorological service and the Emergencies Ministry. This is necessary for forecasting natural emergencies (such as snowstorms, freezes, heavy rain and floods), which require the mobilization of resources and preparations, including a change in work schedules for municipal services. 
The senators also recommend compiling a roadmap for equipping the Northern Sea Route with Russian communication facilities, and studying the issue of creating pilot zones and experimental legal regimes for testing unmanned off-road vehicles in the Russian Arctic and robotized complexes for developing territories and geological prospecting. 
Russia fields most powerful nuclear icebreaker 
The Project 22220 nuclear icebreaker Arktika, the most powerful ship in its class, has officially entered service with the Russian nuclear icebreaker fleet. Atomflot General Director Mustafa Kashka and his counterpart Alexei Kadilov from the Baltic Shipyard signed the acceptance document at the Murmansk seaport. 
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin also attended the signing ceremony. In his speech, he noted that Russia indisputably led the way in developing northern regions. We are proud of the fact that Russia is the only country to develop a nuclear icebreaker fleet, which is now receiving the Arktika, another multirole nuclear icebreaker,” he added. 
Mikhail Mishustin also noted that the expansion of the icebreaker fleet will make it possible to completely unlock the transport potential of the Northern Sea Route; draw the international business community’s interest in the transit corridor between Europe and Asia; and, of course, secure Russia’s leading positions in the strategically important Arctic region.” 
Regarding the new icebreaker, Mikhail Mishustin noted its innovative equipment and powerful engine for breaking up ice-floes and navigating deep and shallow areas. Construction of this vessel required substantial efforts and coordinated work, all the more so as the project’s first stage coincided with the introduction of anti-Russia sanctions. Most importantly, the icebreaker has been built at a Russian shipyard against all odds,” he said. 
In conclusion, the prime minister thanked scientists, engineers, designers and everyone else involved in the project. I would like to wish you every success and a bon voyage to the new icebreaker Arktika. Thank you,” Mishustin said. 
In turn, Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation CEO Alexei Likhachov said the Project 22220 multirole nuclear icebreaker Chukotka, the last ship in the series, would be laid down soon. He also expressed hope that construction of the most powerful nuclear icebreaker, Lider, would soon start at the Zvezda Shipyard. 
The Project 22220 icebreakers are the largest and most powerful ships in their class. The Arktika has the following specifications: 
Length: 173.3 meters 
Beam: 34 meters 
Displacement: 33,500 metric tons. 
The ship can plow through three-meter-thick ice in the mouths of polar rivers and in the Arctic Ocean and can escort ship convoys. 
Permafrost melting in Alaska likely to trigger tsunamis 
Experts have warned of a link between global warming and landslides that may threaten towns and tourist attractions. New studies reveal that permafrost melting is behind mountain rock shifts and may cause tsunamis if rocks collapse into the sea, The Guardian reports. 
One problem area is a slope of the Barry Arm fiord in Alaska that overlooks a busy cruise ship route. Satellite photos helped to discover a slide on Barry Arm, which was first spotted in the early 20th century and accelerated a decade ago. According to a warning issued by 14 geologists earlier this year, a major slide is possible within a year and likely within 20 years. 
If a slide collapses into the fiord, the wave it will create may ram into ships within its range and surge hundreds of meters up nearby mountains, submerging the popular tourist spot and rising as high as 10 meters over the town of Whittier. 
A similar landslide that slipped off a slope in 2015 after what might have been a decades-long creep created a tsunami that shaved off forests 193 meters up the slopes of Taan Fiord in Alaska. Over the past century, 10 of the 14 tallest tsunamis on record occurred in ice-covered mountain areas. In 1958, for example, a landslide that crashed into Lituya Bay, Alaska, raised a 524-meter wave, the highest ever recorded. 
When the climate changes,” said geologist Bretwood Higman, who has worked on Taan Fiord and Barry Arm, the landscape takes time to adjust. If a glacier retreats really quickly it can catch the surrounding slopes by surprise – they may fail catastrophically instead of gradually adjusting.” 
After analyzing satellite photos from the past 30 years, geologist Erin Bessette-Kirton has come to the conclusion that the landslides in Alaska’s St. Elias Mountains and Glacier Bay correspond with the warmest years. According to Bessette-Kirton, scientists do not have a clear understanding of the slide mechanism. We have correlations, but we don’t know the driving force,” she said. 
To address the problem, experts are installing sensors on the more dangerous slopes. By measuring the barely perceptible acceleration of creeping, a sign of a likely slide, they hope to predict when a slope starts edging toward a collapse. 
Russian Arctic — the world’s largest free economic zone 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin met with Arctic zone investors on October 21, during his working visit to the Murmansk Region. 
Mr Mishustin told the investors that meetings in an open dialogue format like this are very important and help the government understand what needs to be done to make the lives of investors, as well as the local people, easier and more comfortable. 
You are the people who want to invest in the Arctic, the North, in your native land. This is great. During my visits to various regions I see how people want to improve their living conditions, make their lives more comfortable and help those who live in the region, and hence, upgrade services and improve the system. This is great,” Mr Mishustin said. 
He added that the Government had already made a number of decisions to improve the terms for investing and doing business as well as for improving living standards in the Arctic. First of all, there is a simple and convenient mechanism for becoming a business resident with the lowest possible threshold to qualify for preferential status — 1 million rubles. In addition, it has been decided to reduce the insurance premium rates for resident businesses that create new jobs — 7.5 percent for big business and 3.25 percent for small and medium-sized companies. 
State support is envisaged for investors that intent to carry out infrastructure projects. The first six projects have already been endorsed. The federal budget has allocated 13 billion rubles for this purpose over the next three years. Of course, roads and energy facilities are objectively required for new plants where local residents can work. This will be yet another important reason for people to stay and work in the North,” Mr Mishustin said. 
There is more good news. The Fund for the Development of the Far East and Arctic will earmark 4 billion rubles to support two projects in the Murmansk Region — in the single-industry cities Kovdor and Kirovsk. The State Commission Presidium has already supported this decision. These projects will make it possible to preserve employment and also to create an additional 1,000 new jobs. The fund will support both large and small projects. The Government has decided to lower the rate at which residents can secure funding; it will only be 2 percent compared with the previous 5 percent,” said Mishustin. 
He laid special emphasis on the fact that today the Arctic is becoming an investment-friendly region: The world’s largest free economic zone has been created in our northern areas. It must become more attractive to businesses in many different industries and of different sizes. It should also appeal to foreign investors. Why not? <…> There are many industries that may be attractive, whether it’s a fish processing plant, a small hotel or medical service companies. All companies must receive equal opportunities, all the more so since this has been sealed in a package of laws on state support for doing business in the Arctic.” 
Transcript of the meeting is accessible on the Russian Government’s official website 
Vladimir Putin: It is important to establish a harmonious relationship between man and nature 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin took part, via videoconference, in the final plenary session of the 17th annual meeting of the Valdai International Discussion Club. In his address, he spoke about many international issues, including the need for environmental protection and the problems of climate change and thawing permafrost. 
* * * 
Vladimir Putin: Many of us read The Little Prince by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry when we were children and remember what the main character said: It’s a question of discipline. When you’ve finished washing and dressing each morning, you must tend your planet. … It’s very tedious work, but very easy.” 
I am sure that we must keep doing this tedious work” if we want to preserve our common home for future generations. We must tend our planet. 
The subject of environmental protection has long become a fixture on the global agenda. But I would address it more broadly to discuss also an important task of abandoning the practice of unrestrained and unlimited consumption – overconsumption – in favour of judicious and reasonable sufficiency, when you do not live just for today but also think about tomorrow. 
We often say that nature is extremely vulnerable to human activity. Especially when the use of natural resources is growing to a global dimension. However, humanity is not safe from natural disasters, many of which are the result of anthropogenic interference. By the way, some scientists believe that the recent outbreaks of dangerous diseases are a response to this interference. This is why it is so important to develop harmonious relations between Man and Nature. 
Tensions have reached a critical point. We can see this in climate change. This problem calls for practical action and much more attention on our part. It has long stopped being the domain of abstract scientific interests but now concerns nearly every inhabitant of the planet Earth. The polar ice caps and permafrost are melting because of global warming. According to expert estimates, the speed and scale of this process will be increasing in the next few decades. 
It is a huge challenge to the world, to the whole of humanity, including to us, to Russia, where permafrost occupies 65 percent of our national territory. Such changes can do irreparable damage to biological diversity, have an extremely adverse effect on the economy and infrastructure and pose a direct threat to people. 
You may be aware that this is very important to us. It affects pipeline systems, residential districts built on permafrost, and so on. If as much as 25 percent of the near-surface layers of permafrost, which is about three or four metres, melt by 2100, we will feel the effect very strongly. Moreover, the problem could snowball into a crisis very quickly. A kind of chain reaction is possible, because permafrost melting will stimulate methane emissions, which can produce a greenhouse effect that will be 28 times (sic!) larger than in the case of carbon dioxide. In other words, the temperature will continue rising on the planet, permafrost will continue melting, and methane emissions will further increase. The situation will spiral. Do we want the Earth to become like Venus, a hot, dry and lifeless planet? I would like to remind you that the Earth has an average surface temperature of 14°C while on Venus it’s 462°C. 
Scientists: Average annual temperature in the Arctic has gone up almost 3 degrees since 1970 
Experts from Tyumen State University have published the results of their geocryologic conditions monitoring carried out in the western sector of the Russian Arctic. 
The greatest changes in the average annual rock temperature were recorded in the typical tundra. The average temperature rise there reaches 0.056 degrees per year. In general, since 1970, the average annual air temperature has increased about 2.8 degrees across the region, which is close to the severe climate change scenario,” said Alexander Vasilyev, an employee of Tyumen State University and the Earth Cryosphere Institute of the Tyumen Scientific Center at the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
The research was carried out in the typical and southern tundra, forest-tundra, and northern taiga. Experts noted that, along with an increase in average annual temperatures, the annual amount of precipitation had also risen by 5–10 percent. Scientists also recorded permafrost degradation in all the climatic zones, except the typical tundra. 
In the forest-tundra zone, permafrost thawing began in the mid-1990s and has now reached 7–10 meters in well-drained areas,” Alexander Vasilyev explained. At the same time, permafrost degradation helps vegetation cover to grow actively and the boundaries of bioclimatic zones move north. 
Temperature monitoring of frozen rocks is carried out as part of the Russian Ministry of Science and Higher Education’s state task: to analyze the conditions and speed of permafrost degradation and study climate change’s impact on vegetation cover, with support from the Russian Foundation for Basic Research. In 2016–2019, expedition work was conducted at monitoring sites in the European North and Western Siberia with the support of the Russian Science Foundation. 
Science and education centers in Arkhangelsk and Yakutsk to pool effort for Arctic studies 
The founders of the two science and education centers (SEC) in Arkhangelsk and in Yakutsk have decided to pool their efforts to study the Arctic more efficiently. An agreement was reached at the forum, Arctic Projects ̶ Today and Tomorrow. 
It makes sense for two SECs to work together for better interaction between the western and eastern parts of the Arctic. It will also strengthen the state’s position in the international Arctic space,” said Yelena Kudryashova, Rector of Northern (Arctic) Federal University, speaking to the Permanent Representative of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Andrei Fedotov. 
Andrei Fedotov supported the idea and suggested sending a proposal to the Ministry of Science and Higher Education. We have to look for a decision that works for the ministry and for us. A conflict of interests is not a good idea: we are also working with the basic research centres in St Petersburg and Moscow. They have signed agreements with us and with you. We have put them in a position where they have to choose, but they don’t want to choose because they are interested in cooperating with both you and us,” noted Andrei Fedotov. 
Yelena Kudryashova also suggested that their colleagues in Yakutia should shift their interests toward the Far East. This way we will have both a field of action and common points,” she explained. 
Some 15 world-class science and education centers are to be established in Russia under the project, Development of Scientific Research and Production Cooperation, which is part of the Science national project. The Arkhangelsk SEC, which is called Russian Arctic: New Materials, Technologies and Research Methods, was established in association with Northern (Arctic) Federal University. The SEC’s job is to combine the efforts of applied and basic science in shipbuilding and logistics, mineral extraction and biological resources for economic development. The center covers the western part of the Arctic: the Arkhangelsk and Murmansk regions, the Nenets Autonomous Area, and the republics of Karelia and Komi. 
The Yakutia SEC covers four partner regions: Yakutia, the Chukotka Autonomous Area, the Magadan Region and the Kamchatka Territory. The SEC’s research is focused on the Arctic environment and climate, the region’s industrial development, building engineering works, transport, energy development and personnel training. 
Arctic Council supports project to preserve northern languages ​​in Russia 
The project to digitalize the linguistic and cultural heritage of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic has been supported by the participants in a session of the Arctic Council Sustainable Development Working Group (SDWG) held in Iceland on October 27-28. 
The project is aimed at a wide target group including indigenous peoples living in the Arctic, indigenous youth, as well as those studying languages, cultures and traditional lifestyles of indigenous peoples. It will involve creating an international multicultural website on the languages, culture and food heritage of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic,” said Anatoly Zhozhikov, Head of the project and Head of the UNESCO Chair in Social and Human Adaptation of the Arctic Regions to Climate Change and Globalization at North-Eastern Federal University. 
He also called for building an international team of participants from the Arctic states to study the experience that Arctic Council countries have in preserving the linguistic and cultural heritage of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic. 
The plan is to conduct interviews and record the speech of native speakers of the Arctic indigenous peoples' languages ​​and bearers of traditional indigenous cultures, and to collect material from public and private archives on linguistic, cultural, historical and food heritage. It is important to involve indigenous youth in research to preserve their linguistic and cultural heritage,” he added. 
This project, implemented with the support of Yakutia’s regional Ministry for the Development of the Arctic and the Affairs of the Peoples of the North, is consistent with SDWG’s main thematic areas, as reflected in its strategic framework document. The project will also contribute to achieving the main goals of the SDWG and the Russian Arctic Council chairmanship in 2021–2022. 
Russia will take over the chairmanship from Iceland in May 2021 and will lead the Arctic Council through the next biennium. 
Vladimir Putin identifies key objective of implementing Arсtic projects 
Russia’s activities in the Arctic should meet environmental standards so as not to damage the fragile nature of the region, noted Vladimir Putin during his address at the Russia Calling! Investment Forum on 29 October. 
Operations in the Arctic region should be absolutely well-provided-for in terms of the observation of safety rules. It has a very fragile environment, very fragile nature, and we should and will do everything we can so that the necessary environmental standards can be observed,” he said at a plenary meeting of the Russia Calling! Investment Forum. 
He added that the scope of Russian production should always be in line with the needs of the world market. 
Vladimir Putin also cited the example of two projects, which are operating on the basis of state-of-the-art technological standards and have no emissions and risks for the environment, Yamal LNG and Arctic LNG 2. 
There is nothing of the kind there, no emissions at all. I have been there and seen an entire city built in the Arctic. It is true. It is a very up-to-date enterprise meeting all environmental standards. Absolutely all. And, frankly speaking, I see no risks here at all,” he said. 
Ministries to develop tax incentives for geological exploration in the Arctic 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has instructed the ministries to work out tax incentives for exploration projects in the Arctic by December 14, 2020.The instruction was issued following his working trip to the Murmansk Region. 
According to a statement on the government website, The ministries are to submit, to the Government of the Russian Federation, coordinated proposals on tax incentives for subsoil users to carry out exploration in Russia’s Arctic zone. The deadline is December 14, 2020,” it said. 
Industry ministries are to develop and submit, by December 14, their proposals to expand the integrated geological and geophysical exploration program on the continental shelf of the Arctic and Far Eastern seas until 2025 to ensure hydrocarbon reserve replacement. They are to propose the sources of financing for additional projects in 2021-2025, including through contributions from potential subsoil users. 
Furthermore, the Prime Minister also instructed the Ministry of Industry and Trade and a number of other ministries to discuss and submit proposals on import substitution and the development of Russian technologies for geological exploration and offshore drilling by December 1. 
Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov, who is in charge of the fuel and energy sector, and First Deputy Prime Minister Andrei Belousov will hold meetings before December 10 to draft a program for the development of the resource potential of the Yamal Peninsula based on proposals for the production, processing and transportation of hydrocarbons, as well as for creating conditions for the development of the Achimov deposits. 
Mikhail Mishustin also ordered the relevant ministries to submit to the Government by May 31, 2021 a strategy for the development of port, railway and airport infrastructure in the Russian part of the Arctic for the period until 2035. 
A strategy for the development of port, railway and airport infrastructure in the Russian part of the Arctic for the next decade and for the period until 2035 should be submitted to the Government by May 31, 2021. The strategy should provide for a comprehensive infrastructure development in the region and for boosting the traffic of export and through cargo along the Northern Sea Route,” the statement says. 
The Ministry of Transport, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic and Rosatom state corporation have been put in charge of developing the strategy. By December 4, these agencies along with the Ministry of Energy must also submit a long-term estimate of cargo traffic in the water area of ​​the Russian Arctic. 
Mishustin also ordered the ministries concerned to submit to the Government, as well as to Deputy Prime Minister Yury Borisov, by December 25, a draft comprehensive plan for the development of emergency infrastructure in the Arctic. 
Also, the industry ministries have been instructed to submit coordinated proposals for improving the legislation regulating emergency rescue activities in the water area of ​​the Northern Sea Route and the Russian Arctic zone. The Emergencies Ministry, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry of Economic Development and the State Atomic Energy Corporation Rosatom are in charge. 
Monument to Academician Nikolai Lavyorov unveiled in Arkhangelsk 
A ceremony was held to unveil a monument to Academician Nikolai Lavyorov and open a new research and laboratory wing at the Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research of the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences took place in Arkhangelsk. The ceremony was attended by Russian Minister of Science and Higher Education Valery Falkov who is in the region on a working visit, Arkhangelsk Region Governor Alexander Tsybulsky, Chair of the regional legislature Yekaterina Prokopyeva, and representatives of the academic community. 
We are unveiling a monument to Nikolai Lavyorov during this difficult time, when Russian science is facing challenges in Arctic research, and everything Arctic-related is symbolic. Today, Russian science is focusing on the Arctic, and Arkhangelsk Region scientists are making a significant contribution to its development,” Valery Falkov noted. 
The monument to Academician Nikolai Lavyorov was put up under the initiative of the Arkhangelsk Region government and the interregional public Lomonosov Foundation. It was sculpted by artist Vitoria Tishchenko. 
This monument is not just a way to immortalize a great scientist but it is also a way to confirm historical accuracy. Nikolai Lavyorov is a global figure. It is largely due to him that we are opening a new research center today: he did a lot for the Arkhangelsk Region to become a scientific center to study the Arctic,” Alexander Tsybulsky noted in his remarks. 
It is noteworthy that the Lavyorov Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research was built under President Vladimir Putin’s direct instructions who supported the initiative of the interregional public Lomonosov Foundation board members to build a specialized building for Arctic research in Arkhangelsk. 
The newly opened building is the first powerful academic complex in the Arctic aimed at fundamental, exploratory and applied research. The officials toured the new center. The four-story building is 5,400 sq m in total. It includes laboratories for studying modern and important problems in the Arctic: Institute of Environmental Problems of the North (IEPN) chemical labs, Institute of Biogeography and Genetic Resources labs, and Institute of Geodynamics and Geology labs, agencies of the Institute of Integrated Arctic Studies, and research facilities for the Arkhangelsk Research Institute of Agriculture. There is also room for a botanical garden and a museum. 
The Global Problems of the Arctic and Antarctic national scientific conference with international representatives opened in Arkhangelsk on the same day. The forum will be held November 2–5 and also be dedicated to Lavyorov. 
The forum will be held both online and offline: with experts’ direct participation and streamed speeches and reports. Detailed program can be found on the forum’s website. 
Indigenous Far North traditions center to open in St. Petersburg 
The Russian Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North (RAIPON) has opened a branch in St. Petersburg that will include a center dedicated to the preservation and promotion of the traditions of the indigenous peoples of the Extreme North. 
St. Petersburg is a generally recognized center for the study of the history of the peoples living in the Russian Arctic. The city has had the Institute of the Peoples of the North, a unique facility offering national and even international-scale education, for nearly a century. It is the only school that trains teaching and scientific research staff for more than 30 small indigenous peoples of the Extreme North. The regional branch of RAIPON will now include an integrated cultural and educational center to promote the traditions and crafts of the northern peoples,” the Governor of St. Petersburg, Alexander Beglov, said. 
The city Governor added that Russia is now preparing to take over the Arctic Council presidency, and projects to support the culture of northern peoples will be launched in St. Petersburg in the coming years. 
According to the Governor's press service, the new center will help representatives of the indigenous minorities of the North living in the city to preserve their traditions and culture, as well as to popularize the northerners’ identity and linguistic heritage. 
It should be noted that the premises for the new center was provided by the City Property Committee for long-term lease at a preferential rate. 
First aerial count of polar bears in the Medvezhyi Islands Nature Reserve 
Some 18 bears, including females with cubs, were spotted by the working group engaged in the aerial survey of these animals in the Medvezhyi Islands (Bear Islands) Nature Reserve in Yakutia. Experts also saw bear tracks leading to the sea, as well as tracks of other inhabitants of the nature reserve: reindeer, muskoxen, Arctic foxes and snowy owls. 
This was the first polar bear count using aircraft in the history of the Nizhnekolymsky District. Our primary task was to monitor the bears on the shore of the East Siberian Sea, rather than on the island,” said Ivan Suzdalov, deputy director of Lenskiye Stolby (Lena Pillars) National Park and head of the Medvezhyi Islands State Nature Reserve. 
During field work in the nature reserve, in the section from Taimyr to Wrangel Island, experts recorded the highest number of maternity dens. In November, female bears usually enter dens for the winter to gestate their offspring. Then, in March, they and their cubs leave for the sea. However, experts note, over recent years, polar bears have traveled deeper into the continent more often. According to Ivan Suzdalov, a polar bear has recently been spotted as close as 15 kilometers from a village of the descendants of the Russian settlers of Siberia. 
This year, polar bears came to the continent shore as early as ever: on July 20. Scientists at the Institute of Biological Problems of Cryolithozone of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences are exploring the reasons for such behavior. 
Suzdalov also added that the current aircraft-assisted count was made possible by the joint efforts of government agencies. It was decided to hold surveys twice a year. The next one will take place in the spring without the use of aircraft. 
Russia to design deep-submergence rescue vehicles for the Arctic 
Next-generation deep-submergence rescue vehicles capable of operating in the Arctic are in development for the Russian Navy. 
The Russian Navy is working on next-generation deep-submergence rescue vehicles, to be rolled out in the near-term. They will be adapted for operation in the Arctic both by the Northern and Pacific fleets,” reported the Navy press service, citing Admiral Nikolai Yevmenov, Commander-in-Chief of the Navy. 
According to the admiral, the Navy is performing upgrades and routine maintenance on the Priz deep-submergence rescue vehicles capable of diving to 1,000 meters and Bester vehicles with a diving capacity of 700 meters. The upgraded АS-36 Bester will get new properties, making it possible to operate in the Arctic after the work is finished in 2021. 
The Kanonersky Ship Repairing Yard is modernizing a number of systems of the AS-36 Bester deep-submergence rescue vehicle, which will considerably enhance its efficiency and capability of assisting submarines in distress. It will be equipped with new positioning, hydro-acoustic search and TV monitoring systems as well as with upgraded life-support systems,” Yevmenov explained. 
He recalled that the vehicles are getting upgrades based on the Russian Navy’s deep-submergence rescue vehicle repair and maintenance program. 
The program will last for over 10 years and entails, along with upgrade and repair, development of next-generation deep-submergence rescue vehicles,” noted the admiral. 
He also said that six deep-submergence rescue vehicles used by the Navy emergency rescue services had been repaired earlier. 
Estonia plans to join the Arctic Council as an observer 
Estonia has applied for an observer status at the Arctic Council. According to the Estonian foreign minister, the application is a shining example of Estonia’s commitment to and wide-ranging interest in being involved in the Arctic Council’s operations and the desire to make its contribution to the sustained development of the Arctic. 
As the northernmost non-Arctic country, Estonia is willing and ready to assume this responsibility,” Estonian Foreign Minister Urmas Reinsalu said. 
During his video conference with the current chair of the Arctic Council of Ministers, Foreign Minister of Iceland Gudlaugur Thor Thordarson, he stressed that not only Arctic nations but also other countries should be obligated to promote the Arctic’ sustained development. 
According to Mr. Reinsalu, Estonia has a lot to offer towards Arctic exploration. He explained that great knowledge and a long history of Arctic studies had been accumulated and that the findings made by Estonian researchers could be easily applied to the Arctic. He added that the Arctic Council’s working groups were already using available knowledge and solutions, this at the initiative and with the support of Estonian explorers. 
Estonia hopes that its application will be considered at the Arctic Council’s meeting next May. 
Ministry of Digital Development to set up Arctic data centers 
Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko has instructed officials at the Russian Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media to study the possibility of establishing data processing centers in the Arctic. He made this statement at a visiting meeting of the Federation Council’s Council for Digital Economic Development in Murmansk. 
Within this framework, I would like to ask officials at the Ministry of Digital Development to draft a general plan for expanding Russian infrastructure networks in the context of using these opportunities in the Arctic zone. We need to create basic data processing centers there for taking up and using this emerging technological niche,” Chernyshenko said. 
He also noted that it was possible to effectively operate these data processing centers in these regions. 
Owing to some climatic conditions, we won’t have to spend any funds on cooling systems, and this could help save up to 40 percent during the operation of these centers,” he added. 
Chernyshenko also instructed the Ministry’s officials to introduce digital government services for Arctic residents by 2022. 
In principle, we have to digitalize government services by late 2022 under a presidential instruction. After assessing the real situation, I would like to ask the Ministry’s officials to list the most vitally important and essential services and to also provide the Arctic zone with these services already by late 2021,” Chernyshenko said at the meeting. 
In September 2020, Chernyshenko asked Russian President Vladimir Putin to stipulate that all online government services be introduced by late 2022. 
Radio broadcasting in local languages may resume in the Arctic 
The Council for the Development of Digital Economy at the Federation Council has urged the Ministry of Digital Development to explore the possibility of resuming radio broadcasting in the languages of the small indigenous peoples of the North. 
The draft decision of the Council’s offsite session held in Murmansk includes a recommendation for the Ministry of Digital Development, Communications and Mass Media and the executive authorities of Russia’s Arctic regions to explore the possibility of resuming radio broadcasting in MW and LW bands in the languages of the small indigenous peoples of the North.” 
The Council also recommends creating an integrated digital online resource for the preservation and promotion of the cultures of local ethnic groups, which should include the recording of folklore and customs and the creation of digital local language textbooks. 
President Putin has approved the Strategy for Developing the Russian Arctic Zone and Ensuring National Security until 2035, which notes that 19 small ethnic groups live in the Arctic zone and their historical and cultural landmarks of global importance are located there. The document also emphasizes the importance of preserving and promoting the cultural heritage and languages of small indigenous peoples. 
Alexei Chekunkov appointed Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic 
Vladimir Putin signed an executive order appointing Alexei Chekunkov to the post of Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
In accordance with Article 83 (e) of the Russian Federation Constitution, Vladimir Putin appointed Alexei Chekunkov Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. This Executive Order shall enter into force on the day of its signing,” the document states. 
Earlier, State Duma deputies supported Chekunkov’s appointment to the post of Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
Alexei Chekunkov 
Born in Minsk on October 3, 1980. 
Education: 
Graduated from the International Economic Relations Department at the Russian Foreign Ministry’s Moscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO University). 
Experience: 
2001-2011: Co-managed the Russian direct investment sector, as well as major projects of international and Russian financial organizations, including in Russia’s Far East, namely, the Sakha (Yakutia) Republic and the Khabarovsk Territory. 
2011-2013: Co-founded the Russian Direct Investment Fund and worked as its Director, Board Member and Investment Committee Member. Oversaw investment in healthcare, energy-saving technologies and the raw materials sector, as well as the establishment of the Russian-Chinese Investment Fund together with the China Investment Corporation (CIC). 
2014-2020: General Director of Russia’s Far East and Arctic Development Fund (VEB.RF Group). 
2015-2019: Member, Alrosa Supervisory Board. 
He is a member of the Government Commission for the Socio-Economic Development of Russia’s Far East and the State Commission for Arctic Development, as well as the Board of Directors at RusHydro. 
Ministry for Development of Russian Far East launches online platform to promote Arctic tourism 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has launched an integral online platform for promoting tourism in the Russian Arctic, with the support of the Russian Federal Agency for Tourism. 
We have launched an integral platform for promoting Arctic tourism, with the support of the Russian Federal Agency for Tourism. It includes websites and social media catering to over one million users, and their number will reach five million before the year is out,” said First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov at a meeting of the Council for Digital Economy Development under the Federation Council, whose participants discussed the digital development prospects of Arctic regions. 
He also added that travel agencies and tour operators could use the platform free of charge. 
Any Arctic tour operators now can post information about their tourist products on this platform, with the support of professional consultants, and we are ready to promote them,” Krutikov added. 
Restrictions linked with the COVID-19 pandemic hit small businesses harder than the rest, Krutikov noted. Entrepreneurs who managed to transform their businesses in new conditions profited from this situation. 
Moscow to host Arctic and Antarctic Days forum at the end of November 
The international forum, Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow, will be held from November 25-27 via videoconference. Russia will present the program for its chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021–2023. The event will include an international scientific congress. The Russian Antarctic research station Vostok will be available for videoconferencing with the participants. 
This year’s forum organizers are the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
According to the organizers, the business program of the event includes presentations of support measures for entrepreneurial activity in the Arctic and of the Arctic Initiatives Center projects. A special session will be devoted to Arctic tourism development, local infrastructure improvements and environmental protection. Scientists from Russia, UK, US, Iceland and South Korea will take part in the international scientific congress Open Arctic and Antarctic. Leading representatives of the global scientific community will discuss priorities in the study and development of the Arctic, as well as the global significance of science as a public diplomacy tool in the Arctic and Antarctic. 
Another important topic to be raised at the forum has to do with a plan to implement the Strategy for Developing the Russian Arctic Zone and Ensuring National Security until 2035. It will be the highlight of the plenary session, which will be attended by the minister of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the minister of Natural Resources, and heads of the regions in the Russian Arctic zone. One of the key speakers at the forum will be Terry Callaghan from Great Britain, a leading expert on environmental change and a Nobel Prize awardee, who is a regular participant of Arctic Days in Moscow. He will also deliver an online lecture on weather anomalies and the Arctic’s impact on the Earth’s climate. 
Young activists, finalists of the Team Arctic competition, will have a chance to meet with the head of one of the largest companies operating in the Russian Arctic. They will have a videoconference to discuss the most in-demand professions, as well as special education and employment opportunities in the region. 
All the participants and guests of the forum, as well as anyone who would like to join them online, can also attend popular science lectures. Professor Love Dalen from the Department of Bioinformatics and Genetics at the Swedish Museum of Natural History will explain whether it is possible to clone a mammoth or any other animal from the Ice Age. The Swedish scientist’s projects have been carried out thanks to cooperation with several Russian colleagues from Yakutia. 
All the events will be streamed online. The organizers will post updates on how to join at the Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow website, www.arctic-days.ru. 
Arctic Mission visitor center will open in Arkhangelsk by the end of 2020 
An up-to-date multipurpose interactive platform for those who want to have a closer look at the Arctic will be open in Arkhangelsk in December. The establishment of a single environmental educational center based on the Russian Arctic National Park was supported by Arkhangelsk Region Governor Alexander Tsibulsky. 
Using the latest technologies you can literally feel the icy breath of the North in the visitor center: see a polar bear, get a sense of the size of a narwhale’s tusk” and get an idea of the everyday life of polar explorers,” noted Alexander Kirilov, Director of the Russian Arctic National Park. 
The center will occupy an area of 700 sq m; it is situated in the building of the Northern Shipping Company on the Northern Dvina embankment and will become a landmark of Arkhangelsk. 
It was important for us to find a place that would convey the spirit of maritime expeditions and work in harsh Arctic conditions. The Shipping Company building represents this idea in the best possible way. Its proximity to the city’s administrative center, accessible traffic intersection and spacious premises are convenient for visiting the center and the National Park museum,” said Alexander Kirilov. 
He added that a gift shop with an entrance hall, a meeting room with a library and a children’s area for conducting master-classes for young people from Arkhangelsk and elsewhere are expected to open this December. 
At the beginning of 2021 the Arctic Mission will also get a café, a museum and a conference hall. 
All the furniture and fixtures for the visitor center will be custom-made: they are supposed to reflect specific features of the specially protected natural area. 
Icebreaker Arktika sails Northern Sea Route for first time 
The multirole nuclear icebreaker Arktika, the lead ship in the series, set sail from the Murmansk seaport and headed for the Kara Sea via the Northern Sea Route. This is its first voyage, expected to last until mid-December. 
The press service of the nuclear icebreaker fleet operator, Atomflot, quotes Leonid Irlits, First Deputy Atomflot General Director for Shipping, as saying: The first voyage is a special event for the entire crew and our company. The nuclear icebreaker Arktika is ready to escort convoys via the entire Northern Sea Route. Its first voyage will last three weeks. Sea-ice formations are quickly accumulating in the Arctic, and we are now able to give the icebreaker a trial run. This is a routine process after each vessel enters into service.” Atomflot is affiliated with State Atomic Energy Corporation Rosatom. 
According to the press service, the icebreaker will return to Murmansk after the voyage, resupply and head for the Northern Sea Route once again. The ship will spend the winter-spring navigation season in the Arctic. 
The Project 22220 icebreaker Arktika, the most powerful in the world, officially entered into service with the Russian atomic fleet on October 21, 2020. 
FEDC gets authorization to work in the Arctic zone 
The Russian government has authorized the Far East Development Corporation (FEDC) to operate in the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation. The resolution will come into force on January 1, 2021. 
The government resolved to designate the Far East Development Corporation as the management company responsible for overseeing the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation, the priority socioeconomic development areas in the regions comprising the Far Eastern Federal district and the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation, and the Free Port of Vladivostok,” according to the resolution. 
The main function of the FEDC is to review applications from potential investors for resident status in priority development areas (PDA) and the Free Port of Vladivostok, to build infrastructure at PDAs, and to provide land plots for the implementation of PDA resident projects. In addition, the FEDC provides support to residents during the implementation of these projects. 
Mishustin announces liquidation of eight Russian development institutions 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin announced the government’s plans to reform the system of development institutions. Under the plan, the government will redistribute the functions of eight development institutions between VEB.RF and federal executive bodies, and liquidate the institutions. 
For example, the Development Foundation for the Far East and the Arctic, the Human Capital Development Agency in the Far East and the Arctic, the Special Economic Zones company and the Monocities Development Fund will be liquidated. 
In line with the president’s instructions, the government will optimize the development institutions, so that they are fully able to work toward achieving the national development goals set by the presidential executive order,” Mishustin said at a meeting on current issues with his deputies. 
In addition, the Russian ICT Development Foundation, Rosinfokominvest, the Agency for Technical Development, and the Far East Investment and Export Agency will be subject to liquidation. 
The prime minister also proposed transferring the Corporation for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises (SME), Rosnano, the Russian Export Center, the Export Insurance Agency of Russia (EXIAR), the Skolkovo Foundation and three more foundations under the management of the VEB.RF development corporation. 
Doing this will reduce duplicate functions and establish five large development institutions,” the prime minister noted. 
Earlier Mishustin announced the launch of a state management system reform, which, among other things, envisages decreasing the number of officials by 10 percent. 
Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic assesses global warming impact on the Arctic 
The Arctic may incur losses between two and nine trillion rubles by 2050, due to global warming. 
The most optimistic forecast, with minimal warming rates, predicts two trillion rubles by 2050. Maximum losses, or nine trillion rubles by 2050, could occur in the event of more active warming,” First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov said at a meeting of the Federation Council’s Arctic and Antarctic Council. 
The forecast suggests direct losses, such as the loss of buildings and other fixed assets in the Arctic. This is a scientifically sound estimate based on calculations,” Krutikov noted. 
He recalled that the government had issued a directive making the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic responsible for drafting a plan to adapt the Arctic to climate change. According to Krutikov, the ministry established a group consisting of 36 leading Russian scientists that deal with various aspects of climate change. 
Approved by the president, the strategy for developing the Russian Arctic zone and ensuring national security until 2035 stipulates the development of an integrated state environmental monitoring system using modern information and communication technologies and communications systems. 
It will take one month to draft plans for the monitoring system, Krutikov said. 
To minimize these losses and to prevent risks for people’s health and life, we need to create a full-fledged system for monitoring the impact of long-term permafrost degradation. The system’s concept will be drafted within a month, and we will be ready to submit it to you. This calls for creating a system that would include geo-cryologic test sites in the entire Arctic zone, a chain of permafrost-monitoring stations and commissions in line with Soviet-era practices, as well as regional centers for designing and protecting buildings and structures,” he noted. 
He added that putting the system into action would require passing additional federal laws. 
Esteemed Senators, we will ask you for support, so as to jointly draft and approve this bill next year,” Krutikov said. 
Arctic and Antarctic Days international forum kicks off in Moscow 
The international forum, Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow, kicks off online today. The event to last until November 27, is dedicated to the Arctic as a sustainable development area. 
First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov noted at the plenary session, The Arctic and the Antarctic – a territory of sustainable development, harmony of nature and humans” that Russia is interested in international cooperation in the Arctic and open for it; all the opportunities exist for this. According to Krutikov, the established incentive system and the free economic zones will boost economic activities and make equal the conditions for activities in the Arctic. 
All this means new opportunities to develop international economic cooperation… And, of course, we are interested and open for more new projects involving other countries in the Arctic zone,” Krutikov said. 
The deputy minister also noted that by the 2030s, the Northern Sea Route will develop as a global transportation corridor for international traffic. 
Russia has all the capabilities to offer the world completely new logistics thanks to the Northern Sea Route. The decisions taken today to develop and build icebreakers and ports are aimed at making <...> the Northern Sea Route a global transportation corridor later, in the 2030s,” Krutikov said. 
He noted that the Northern Sea Route was a completely new economic project for Russia and the shortest sea route. 
As is known, today maritime logistics is the cheapest, and its share in international transportation is growing. <…> These investments we have now are investments in the future; 10–15 years is not a long time for the development of a state,” the deputy minister concluded. 
An ice-resistant platform for service in the Arctic to be floated out in St. Petersburg 
The ice-resistant self-propelled platform (LSP) North Pole is being prepared for a float-out at the JSC Admiralty Shipyards in St. Petersburg. The ceremony is scheduled for December 18. 
According to the specifications, the platform is 83 meters long and can accommodate 33 researchers and 13 crew members. The platform will be able to drift independently for up to two years. This will allow for long-term experiments in the Arctic, the processing of information on the spot and transmitting the results back to the mainland. Scientists will be able to conduct comprehensive research and record observations on the Arctic climate, snow, ice, biodiversity, atmosphere, the state of the environment, and other areas. 
The vessel's tasks will include oceanographic, acoustic, geophysical and geological observations in the Arctic Ocean. 
The operations of the ice-resistant platform North Pole will help resume the traditional operations of the drifting stations in the Arctic region. Previously, polar research stations were built on icebergs where scientists lived and worked. The first year-round station built by Soviet researchers was in 1937; the expedition was called The North Pole. 
Far East and Arctic Development Ministry reveals support measures for entrepreneurs in the Arctic 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has prepared amendments to the federal law package on the incentive system in the Russian Arctic. The amendments would lift the requirement for small businesses to invest in real estate when applying for resident status. 
Small businesses said the regulations were not very convenient specifically for them, considering that they must invest in real estate to get the incentives. The decision was taken immediately and directly by the prime minister. The amendments have already been drafted and are being prepared for submission to the State Duma,” said Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov at the 2020 Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow international forum. 
Krutikov added that the authorities could not provide incentives to businesses already operating in the Arctic because that would reduce regional budget resources. 
Incentives for operating businesses and incentives for new businesses always cause the most discussions. We cannot provide incentives for operating businesses. <...> If we provide incentives to existing businesses, we will drain local and regional budgets, and we won’t have the resources to address social issues. So we will not do it this way in general, no matter how much we want to support operating businesses,” he said. 
The deputy minister stressed that all the benefits and incentives in the Arctic apply to new economic activity which is currently not included in the budgets. 
At the same time, and I would like to stress this, we are not taking away opportunities for existing enterprises to get these new incentives. The law [on the incentive system in the Arctic] allows an operating company to receive incentives if it either launches a new investment project or engages in a new type of economic activity. These are absolutely feasible conditions for access to all these incentives,” he said. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic is also developing a mechanism to support leasing for Arctic entrepreneurs because existing measures do not take into consideration the specifics of activities in this macroregion. 
During a meeting about six months ago, businesses particularly drew our attention to the problem with leasing because existing leasing support measures do not factor in specifics of the Arctic ‒ for example, the kind of equipment that is needed there. And right now we are developing a separate mechanism to support leasing for entrepreneurs in the Arctic,” he said. 
Krutikov also noted that currently, logistic expenses when implementing projects in the Arctic could be very high due to the lack of infrastructure. 
Of course, it will not be possible to help everybody in one form or another, for example, to subsidize logistics costs, because that would put spending through the roof. But targeted support, for example, for export-oriented and competitive products, or products with high added value, which are produced in the Arctic for large markets in Central Russia or abroad, may be a different story, so we can work on this,” he said. 
Experts speak about the upcoming program of Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship 
Russia will take an inclusive approach to managing the Arctic region in the program of its Arctic Council chairmanship in 2021–2023, according to Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large for International Cooperation of the Russian Foreign Ministry and senior official at the Arctic Council. 
The Russian Federation will have a strong foundation of Arctic cooperation for its Arctic Council chairmanship. The chairmanship program is still in the works. Being the largest Arctic country, Russia is basing it on a comprehensive inclusive approach to ensuring responsible management of the Arctic region. It is based on the concept of sustainable development, which envisages a balance of three elements: social, economic and environmental issues,” Korchunov said at the international forum Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow. 
The ambassador added that Russia would also focus on biological security. 
During its Arctic Council chairmanship, Russia will support projects to reduce emissions and will work to mitigate the effects of environmental damage in the region,” he noted. First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov also expressed interest in dealing with issues related to climate change. 
During the upcoming chairmanship, we will address common challenges together, among other important issues, and above all, that of climate change. <...> This is a global challenge, and the entire Arctic community can minimize its impact. The climate agenda will be a key issue, and we intend to offer new cooperation formats as part of our chairmanship,” Krutikov said. 
In 2021–2023, Russia will chair the Arctic Council. Work is in full swing to prepare the chairmanship program. As Ambassador-at-Large Nikolai Korchunov said earlier, it will largely take into account regions’ proposals and focus on the balanced promotion of sustainable development with an emphasis on socioeconomic issues. 
Korchunov also added that Russia wanted the Arctic to become an attractive region for investors. He noted that it was also necessary for the Arctic Council members to cooperate in the field of science. 
Plans to include Arctic tourism service in a national project 
The Ministry for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic has suggested that the website created with the support of Rostourism (Federal Agency for Tourism) to promote Arctic tourism should be included in a relevant national project. 
Earlier, the ministry launched, with Rostourism’s support, a separate platform within the Arctic-Russia.ru website, aimed at promoting tourism in the Russian Arctic and developing business in this sphere. 
We intend to further develop this service in order to broaden our target audience as much as possible. We have provided for the relevant resources and I hope this service will be much in demand. I would suggest that the Head of Rostourism consider making it part of the national project on the Arctic,” said First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Far East and the Artic Alexander Krutikov at the forum Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow. 
He specified that using this service, any tourist operator that works in the Arctic and offers Arctic tours can consult professionals that market tourist products free of charge. He said they can help tourist operators to compile and present these products properly. 
Krutikov noted that at present the website targets Russian tourists but there are plans to attract a foreign audience as well. 
Now, of course, the service appeals to potential Russian tourists but we will certainly reach out to a foreign audience once the current epidemiological restrictions are lifted,” Krutikov said.He added that Arctic tourism is given priority in the program that is currently being drafted. 
We have discussed tourism in the Arctic several times and Rostourism has supported and started to implement all of our initiatives and proposals,” he noted. 
As early as in July, at a meeting of the Presidential Council for Strategic Development and National Projects, Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko suggested including tourism in a list of national projects. Rostourism Head Zarina Doguzova said that the drafting of the national project Tourism and the Hospitality Industry” may be completed before the end of this year. She said the project would make it possible to establish world level resorts in Russia and would make the country interesting, comfortable and appealing not only to Russians but also to the most discerning foreign travelers. 
Rostourism to finance Russian Arctic eco-trail 
Next summer, the southern cluster of Russian Arctic National Park will get a nature trail for tourists on Cape Zhelaniya on Severny Island of the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago. The project will be financed by a Federal Agency for Tourism (Rostourism) grant. 
Apart from building nature trails, experts will assess and monitor the anthropogenic impact of tourists on the environment. In 2021, a new visitor center will open on Cape Zhelaniya. Its work will help estimate the carrying capacity so as to better manage tourism in the southern cluster. 
We have received many requests to plot new tourist routes and create a barrier-free tourist environment. There are many interesting systemic projects that will effectively change the image of the Russian tourist industry and make tourism more affordable, more diverse and safer,” said Zarina Doguzova, head of Rostourism. 
The federal Government has set aside 1.2 billion rubles for implementing the new tourism support measure. The average requested grant is 2.6 million. Under the tender’s terms, the winning bidder should invest their own funds totaling at least 30 percent of the grant. 
Murmansk Region to install polar lights signs for tourists 
Special road signs, Polar Lights, will be installed in the Murmansk Region so that tourists know where they can see this natural phenomenon. 
By December 15, special road signs will mark all the key places where the polar lights are most often visible so that nobody will get confused and everybody will know where to go and what to look for. There will be parking too,” said Governor Andrei Chibis at the Arctic and Antarctic Days in Moscow international forum on Thursday. 
The Murmansk Region Government also plans to approve, by the end of 2020, a road service development program to build relevant infrastructure in remote parts of the region for tourists and locals. The program includes three areas: Teriberka in the Kola District, Umba-Varguza in the Tersky District and Titovka in the Pechengsky District. 
This year building road infrastructure on the way to Teriberka was a priority, because of the dirt road renovation and the growing number of tourists heading to the old Pomor village: it became popular after the release of Andrei Zvyagintsev’s film Leviathan. There are plans to build service facilities at the 32nd kilometer of the Murmansk-Teriberka road. A digital display showing the latest weather reports has already been installed there. The plans also include building a gas station with the relevant infrastructure. 
Russian experts to develop solutions for 5G coverage in the Arctic 
A trial Russian 5G modem and new algorithms of data processing that will make producing equipment for 5G networks cheaper and more reliable and also allow the introduction of a high-speed internet network in the Arctic will be presented by engineers from Tomsk State University (TSU) at the end of 2020. 
As of today, there is no Russian-made 5G equipment in Russia. In line with the roadmap approved by the Russian government in November, the production of the equipment will start in 2023. Mass introduction of 5G networks, in 10 cities with a population of over one million, is scheduled for 2024, while 40 percent of the components of the base stations in Russia must be Russian-made Money for the creation of the equipment and the conversion of the radio frequency spectrum (about 29 billion rubles) will be allocated under the Digital Economy national program. 
Engineers of the TSU Engineering Center for Microwave Engineering and Technology are developing cutting-edge algorithms to digitally process the radio signal for new-generation communications systems. On the one hand, the use of these algorithms will reduce the cost of the service, and on the other, it will ensure high quality even in extreme conditions, for example, at very low temperatures like in the Russian Arctic. The project is being implemented with the support of the Mendeleyev Fund,” the TSU press service said. 
Experts have assembled a model of a Russian 5G modem to process algorithms and now the center’s team is testing the receiving and transmitting device and checking its performance and signal security. The final results will be presented by the end of 2020 and will create a flexible modular platform for the implementation of communication systems. 
The scientific base created by the TSU scientists will be useful in addressing the task of developing a Russian 5G base station and components (without imported components) as envisaged by the Russian government,” the press service notes. 
Scientists to study prospects of Russian Arctic oil and gas deposits 
Scientists from the Scientific Research Institute of Geology, Geophysics and Mineral Deposits, affiliated with the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, will assess the prospects of the Russian Arctic oil and gas bearing areas using electromagnetic sounding data. 
Specialists from Novosibirsk are working on a fundamental research problem linked with expanding the Russian Arctic’s raw materials deposits. They want to analyze the specifics of the region’s oil and gas bearing areas and their structure using electromagnetic sounding data,” the institute’s press service said. 
The work will help expand research and development projects aiming to evaluate the potential of Arctic territories, including the coastal shelf and islands. During the current survey, experts will study the Khatanga-Vilyui oil and gas bearing province. Earlier, a similar project was conducted at the Troitsko-Mikhailovsky Range in the Angara River sector. 
Electromagnetic sounding data and drilling results helped assess two gas bearing strata. 
The electromagnetic sounding method makes it possible to see through the Earth’s multiple layers using AC and DC generators. The method measures the electromagnetic field’s components at one or several points on the terrestrial surface simultaneously. The penetrating depth of electric currents increases steadily. 
Scientists now suggest drilling parametric wells in two sectors. The electromagnetic sounding method can help predict mineral deposits with improved properties inside the Chunkinsko-Paimbinskaya area. 
Russian Arctic to create over 180,000 jobs in the next 15 years 
New investment projects and the development of existing production facilities will make it possible to create 182,400 jobs in the Russian Arctic by 2035. This conclusion was reached following a survey of the Arctic economy’s projected human resources demand commissioned by the Agency for Human Capital Development in the Far East and the Arctic. 
Analysts from Petrozavodsk State University conducted the survey together with Lomonosov Northern (Arctic) University at the agency’s request. 
They were commissioned to forecast the Russian Arctic economy’s human resources demand and to analyze the capabilities of the secondary professional and higher education system in meeting this demand. The survey also evaluated employment levels among the indigenous northern ethnic groups and HR support for the Northern Sea Route’s operations. The opinion polls were conducted at companies that employ 70 percent of social sector workers and those employing 60 percent of real economy workers in the Russian Arctic. 
Current demand makes it possible to adjust the number of secondary and higher education school graduates and to conduct well-thought-out career guidance,” Ivan Yefimov, the Agency’s deputy director general, noted. 
According to the survey, 140,000 jobs will be created in the Russian Arctic by implementing 198 investment projects worth 19 trillion rubles. 
An additional 42,000 jobs can be created by expanding the 627 current production facilities. 
These jobs will mostly appear in the Murmansk Region and the municipalities of the Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Arkhangelsk Region. The numbers will be approximately 59,900, 52,100 and 30,000 jobs, respectively. 
They will mostly be created in sectors like the mining industry (76,400), the processing industry (40,400), construction (25,300), transportation and storage (16,000). 
Starting in 2021, the Arctic will require tens of thousands of new workers annually. This demand will reach 73,800 in 2024 and 66,500 in 2035. 
Specialists with a higher education will account for 33 percent. Specialists with a secondary education, including skilled industry and office workers, will account for almost 50 percent, and unskilled laborers will account for 20 percent. 
All 74 Arctic municipalities are reporting human resource shortages, and they now have to attract personnel on a rotation basis. In 2019, 207,000 people worked on a rotation basis, and this number could reach 460,000 by 2035, assuming all investment projects in the survey are implemented. 
It should be noted that on December 2 ̵ 8, 2020, the agency held the online Far Eastern Job Fair for vacancies, training and fieldwork venues called Job Hunting in the Far East. The Facultetus online platform supported the event. 
The fair attracted 1,966 students and graduates from 55 universities and colleges in Russia, including 27 in the Far Eastern Federal District. 
Organized by the Agency for Human Capital Development in the Far East and the Arctic, the fair involved 78 companies from among major Far Eastern employers. They offered 455 jobs for young graduates, as well as advanced training and fieldwork opportunities. 
During the 7-day online fair, Job Hunting in the Far East, graduates and students from institutions in the Far East and other Russian regions were able to meet with employers in the Far Eastern Federal District online, without interrupting their studies. 
They learned about corporate vacancies, specialized advanced training, career workshops, lectures and webinars from the agency’s experts. 
High-speed internet in the Arctic will cost $1 bln 
Laying an underwater Arctic fiber-optic cable from Murmansk to Vladivostok will cost around $0.8-1.2 billion. 
Our project for the construction of an underwater Arctic fiber-optic cable from Murmansk to Vladivostok, connecting Europe and Asia, is a key infrastructure initiative. It is a commercial project, as we are not asking for any funding from the state. We know how to implement this investment project in terms of attractive economic payback,” MegaFon CEO Gevork Vermishyan said at the Arctic: Today and the Future forum in St. Petersburg. 
In November the company, together with Rosgeologia, completed the first stage of surveying route sections in the waters of the Northern Sea Route with a total length of 6,500 kilometers. According to the plan, the second stage of the survey will be carried out in 2021 and will include studying the geology of the seafloor. Based on the results, the best route for cable-laying will be selected and the places for building branches to the shore will be determined. The length of the fiber-optic transmission line be around 10,000 kilometers. 
Duma Committee to discuss project on socio-economic development of the Arctic 
At its next session, the State Duma Committee on Regional Policy and Problems of the North and Far East will review a draft resolution on endorsing the state program for the socio-economic development of Russia’s Arctic zone in 2021-2024, which was recently submitted to parliament. 
The draft resolution on endorsing the state program for the socio-economic development of Russia’s Arctic zone in 2021-2024 was submitted to the State Duma just yesterday. At its next session, on December 16, via videoconference, the committee will review this program with all interested government bodies,” said committee Chair Nikolai Kharitonov at the 10th international forum, The Arctic: Present and Future.” 
It should be noted that the first draft project on renovating military Arctic cities was also presented at the forum. This project will be launched in the Murmansk Region in 2021. About 1 billion rubles will be allocated for this purpose. 
Closed military cities with minimal economic potential perform a different and important function in national security. Living conditions in them are a far cry from their role and importance to the state. Starting next year, we will launch the first project on renovating military cities in the Murmansk Region. Almost 1 billion rubles will be allocated for these purposes, of which 700 million rubles will come from the federal budget,” said First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov. 
He explained that over 2 billion rubles would be invested in the near future in upgrading housing in the Arctic, half of which would be provided by the state and the other half by private investors. 
In September, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic published a new draft state program for the socio-economic development of the Russian Arctic in 2021-2024, with the budget financing of over 22.6 billion rubles. It is expected that the planned measures will help attract extra-budgetary investment of up to 490 billion rubles to the region before 2025. During the implementation of the program, the number of Arctic zone resident companies is expected to reach 250, and the number of newly created jobs – 28,500. 
Government to integrate Far East and Arctic development institutes 
The Government has decided to overhaul the system of development institutes of the Russian Far East and Arctic, which will be reformed as a single development institute. 
The reform will involve the Human Capital Development Agency in the Russian Far East and Arctic (HCFE), the Far East Investment and Export Agency (FEIEA), the Far East Development Corporation (FEDC), and the Far East Development Fund (FEDF), which will be integrated into a single Far East development institute. 
As a result, our Russian and foreign investors and partners implementing projects in the Russian Far East and Arctic will be able to deal with one institution,” reads a press release of the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
The ministry will continue working with investors within the framework of previous agreements and will also launch new projects with the support and active involvement of the new integrated development institute. 
This consolidation will enhance the effectiveness of interaction between the state and businesses, and will make the procedure as simple and convenient as possible for the people, Russian companies and their foreign partners.” 
The reform will also promote the systemic development and creation of more favorable conditions for doing business in the Russian Far East and Arctic. 
Arctic visitor center opens in Arkhangelsk 
In Arkhangelsk, an Arctic visitor center opened at the Northern Shipping Company. 
According to Andrei Kunnikov, deputy director for environmental education and tourism at Russian Arctic National Park, the visitor center’s target audience will primarily be schoolchildren and students, but adults will also be able to visit it. We will have a library for them; people will be able to come and read books about the Arctic and high latitudes in general,” he said. 
It is also reported that in the future, an interactive museum and conference hall will be created here. The next stage calls for opening a full-fledged museum. It is currently under development. 
The Arctic visitor center is part of the Arctic Studies project of the national park. According to Lev Levit, the Arkhangelsk Region governor’s spokesman for Arctic development, the project should soon receive support under the state program Socioeconomic Development of the Russian Arctic Zone. 
Ice-resistant platform for service in the Arctic floated out in St. Petersburg 
The ice-resistant self-propelled platform North Pole has been floated out at the Admiralty Shipyards in St. Petersburg. This 00903 project platform was developed at the request of the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring (Roshydromet) as part of the state program for the development of the Arctic. 
The North Pole is a research center designed for year-round expeditions in high latitudes of the Arctic Ocean. Scientists will be able to conduct research on Arctic geology, acoustics, geophysics and oceanography without needing the assistance of an icebreaker. The platform also has a landing pad for heavy helicopters like the Mi-8. 
The vessel accommodates a crew of 14 people and 34 research workers. 
According to the specifications, the platform is 83.1 meters long and 22.5 meters wide. It has a displacement of about 10,390 metric tons and engine power of 4,200 kW. The platform can reach a speed of at least 10 knots and drift independently for up to two years given the fuel reserves. The service life of the platform will be some 25 years. 
Arkhangelsk molecular genetics laboratory to monitor the health of northern residents 
A molecular genetics laboratory, which will study the predisposing causes that residents of the Russian north have to various diseases, will be created at Northern State Medical University (NSMU) in Arkhangelsk. 
"Governor of the Arkhangelsk Region Alexander Tsybulsky discussed the prospects of creating a molecular genetics laboratory in the capital of Pomorye with Rector of Northern State Medical University Lyubov Gorbatova. <...> The plan is to base the research division at the specialized university <...> Following the meeting, the head of the region instructed the Arkhangelsk Region’s Ministry of Healthcare together with NSMU to develop a comprehensive project to create a molecular genetics laboratory," reported the press service of the governor and the government of the Arkhangelsk Region. 
It is expected that the laboratory will examine patients with a cancer diagnosis, conduct a wide range of tests, diagnose hereditary diseases, study the causes of infertility, and research the predisposition of residents of the North to diseases such as hypertension, ischemic stroke, thrombophilia, obesity and osteoporosis. 
Governor Alexander Tsybulsky noted that the laboratory would allow doctors not only to treat patients more efficiently, but also to carry out disease prevention. 
The laboratory premises have already been selected, and now estimate documentation for repairs is being completed. There are plans to carry out the repair work by the end of 2021 and to fit out the laboratory in early 2022. 
According to Tsybulsky, the opening of the laboratory will be part of the work of the research and education center The Russian Arctic: New Materials, Technologies and Research Methods, which is supported by the government of the Russian Federation. 
Yakutia government weighs building a deep-water Arctic port 
The prospects of building a deep-water port and land transportation infrastructure in the Arctic zone of Yakutia were discussed at a meeting with Chairman of the Government of Yakutia Andrei Tarasenko. 
"Taking into account the implementation of major investment projects in our republic, the cargo shipped along the Northern Sea Route will reach 300,000 metric tons by 2032, so the main work now should focus on analyzing the cargo throughput in the Arctic regions," said Andrei Tarasenko. The meeting also touched on the issue of building land transport infrastructure, which will be further reviewed with subsoil users operating in the Arctic regions. 
Each year during the navigation season, Yakutia receives 350,000 metric tons of cargo, approximately 100,000 of which transit the Northern Sea Route, to support life in the Arctic regions of the republic. The 2020 navigation season saw 61,800 metric tons of cargo delivered via the Northern Sea Route. 
In August 2020, Head of Yakutia Aisen Nikolayev approved the socioeconomic development strategy for the Arctic zone of the Republic. According to the document, the socioeconomic development of the Arctic will be based on five development priorities, namely the social, industrial, transit, environmental and innovative areas. The strategy involves upgrading airports, developing small aircraft, resuming regular navigation along the Northern Sea Route, building roads, providing residents with affordable internet, pursuing industrial development on the principles of social responsibility, preserving the traditional way of life of northerners, and advancing education and medicine. 
Far East and Arctic Development Fund to finance investment projects in Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area and Murmansk Region 
The Far East and Arctic Development Fund will provide additional monies for high-priority investment projects in the Murmansk Region and the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
A directive that has been signed will spur the development of high-priority economic sectors, boost regional employment levels and facilitate the socio-economic development of polar areas,” the Russian Government’s website notes. 
The Novy Urengoi airport will be upgraded in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. There are plans to build a new air terminal with an area of 19,600 square meters and to rebuild local runways. The directive stipulates that up to 3.73 billion rubles should be made available for these purposes. 
In the Murmansk Region, additional investment will help develop the Kovdor Mining and Ore Processing Works that manufactures iron ore, apatite and baddeleyite concentrates. The factory will therefore expand annual ore output from 14.5 million to 19.5 million metric tons and create over 500 jobs. This project is to receive over two billion rubles. 
A solar-powered drone to be launched over the Arctic for the first time 
The Russian military are planning to launch an Arctic-capable solar-powered drone Sova (Owl). 
We plan to conduct a series of flights of the latest Sova drone in the Far North and Polar regions. The main mission of the drone is to transmit communication signals and conduct optical reconnaissance in military interests,” the source said, adding that the new drone is ultra-light (under 12 kg). It has a long wing with solar panels, which allows it to glide in the air owing to it small weight.” 
It is driven by two electric motors with propellers and falls under the category of the so-called atmospheric satellites because it can spend 50 hours and more in the air at an altitude of about 20 km. 
Earlier, the Sova drone was mentioned in the report on The Main Results of the Armed Forces of the Russian Federation in 2012-2020,” which was published by the Defense Ministry. The booklet notes that the latest drone has been included in a number of projects that were implemented with the Defense Ministry’s involvement in 2020. 
First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov resigns 
First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexander Krutikov has announced that he is leaving his job and moving on to a new position. 
I am completing my job at the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. For six and a half years I had the honor of working with one of the country’s best managerial teams. I am not going to evaluate my performance,” Krutikov wrote on Facebook. 
He said he planned to leave the government office back in 2018, but was encouraged to stay on because of a new sphere of responsibilities.” Helping develop the Arctic during the past two years was more than just part of my official duties. I will continue doing this in my new position, which you will learn about soon,” he wrote. 
He added that he was proud of the projects he was responsible for, such as the Far Eastern Hectare, the introduction of investment quotas to incentivize fishing, and the creation of a client-focused system of support for investors. 
And the last but not the least attraction was the Arctic, which was declared a special economic zone in 2020 with a long list of incentives and privileges for the creation of new companies and jobs. I would like to point out that the basis for boosting the development of Russia’s Arctic regions has been created. I am grateful to the national leadership for giving me this opportunity to make a modest contribution to the common cause of Russia’s development. Thank you, Mr. Yury Trutnev,” Krutikov wrote on social media. 
Before his appointment to the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, Alexander Krutikov was on the management team of the Odintsovo Municipal District in the Moscow Region. He took a job at the ministry on October 7, 2016 and was promoted to first deputy minister on October 27, 2020. 
Ministry for Development of the Far East and the Arctic proposes expanding Arctic zone 
The Ministry for Development of the Far East and the Arctic has proposed expanding land boundaries of the Arctic zone by incorporating territories in the Arkhangelsk Region, Karelia, Komi and the Krasnoyarsk Territory. 
Territories proposed for incorporation into the Arctic zone: 
· Arkhangelsk Region: the municipal districts of Leshukonskoye and Pinezhsky; 
· Karelia: Kalevala ethnic municipal district, Kostomuksha city district, Segezha municipal district; 
· Komi: the city districts of Inta, Usinsk, Ust-Tsilma municipal district; 
· Krasnoyarsk Territory: the villages of Surinda, Tura, Nidym, Uchami, Tutonchany, Yessei, Chirinda, Ekonda, Kislokan, Yukta and Evenki municipal district. 
Arctic zone residents are eligible for tax concessions, partial rebate of social and pension insurance contributions and mineral resources extraction tax rebate in the amount equal to the funds they have invested in infrastructure. Other statutory support measures include developing and protecting the economic activities of the small indigenous groups living in the Arctic. 
The Arctic zone currently covers nine Russian regions. It fully includes the Chukotka Autonomous Area, the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, the Nenets Autonomous Area and the Murmansk Region, as well as 45 municipal entities in the Republic of Karelia, the Republic of Komi, the Arkhangelsk Region, the Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). 
Russian scientists develop coating to protect electronic equipment from rust and rapid change in temperature 
Researchers at the Tomsk State University (TSU), jointly with colleagues from the Institute of High Current Electronics (IHCE) of the Russian Academy of Sciences have developed a monomeric coating that can protect electronic equipment from rust and changes in temperature of –196 to +130 degrees. 
TSU researchers from the Laboratory of Chemical Technologies and IHCE staff have created a new protective coating resistant to extreme changes of temperature and highly resistant to many chemical solvents. It can be used as protection against early corrosion of printed electric circuit boards and electronic components operating in increased humidity or extreme low-temperature environments. Specifically, it can increase the reliability of equipment employed in the Arctic,” TSU Press Service reports. 
The report adds that the current method of protecting electronic equipment uses various paint and varnish coatings based on epoxy resins, polyurethanes or polyacrylates, which are applied by aerosol spraying, brushing, or dipping a printed board in a solution. This is no guarantee of 100% protection, since the coating may not cover hard-to-reach places, with bubbles of air likely to form underneath. 
We take a substance called monomer, vaporize it and transport the vapors to the plasma, where various plasmochemical reactions occur, this resulting in active particles that settle on the underlying material and form a coating. This takes no more than 30 minutes and the coating is smooth and mechanically durable. Since the deposition occurs from the gaseous phase, there is no problem with a reaction gas penetrating hard-to-access areas,” says Daniil Zuxa, a developer. 
The new coating enables electronic equipment to operate under extreme conditions, in aggressive chemical or highly humid environments. As a next step, the researchers are planning to upgrade the coatings for use on the conductive parts of spacecraft. 
Arctic reindeer research in 2021 
Drones will count the reindeer population in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
Since last year, the Yamalspas rescue service has had drones that monitor the woodlands during the fire danger period and follow developments in the environment. The drones will also help count animal populations. You write a technical assignment for an area and period, when the count is needed, and we will provide the equipment,” the regional government press service reported following Governor Dmitry Artyukhov’s meeting with the region’s scientific community. 
So far there is no understanding as to the number of reindeer in question. The local people say there are several thousand reindeer, but small aircraft have spotted only a few dozen. 
The Governor has also supported the proposal to create a program to study the flora and fauna on Bely Island, the northernmost point of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, with its unique nature. 
There is no domestic reindeer herding there, but the island boasts the greatest number of white owls in the world. We have been hoping to return to it but we lack the necessary human resources. Today we decided to express this idea, and we are pleased that it has been supported. A Bely Island research program for the next five years should be drawn up and this will make it possible to pool different scientific disciplines and sources of funding,” Alexander Sokolov, senior research fellow at the Institute of Animal and Plant Ecology’s Arctic research station under the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
This year, Yakutia will also acquire the resources for Lena-Olenyok reindeer reproduction. 
To preserve the breeding stock of the Lena-Olenyok subspecies, a new specially protected nature territory – the Alrosa-Rangifer-Chekanovsky Reserve will be established in the Bulun District in 2021,” the Republic’s Ministry of Environment reports. 
The future 64,100-hectare reserve will be located within the Chekanovsky Ridge. 
Most of the Lena-Olenyok reindeer breeding stock, or almost 90 percent of the subspecies, which can assure reproduction and stability, is concentrated in this area,” says a ministry spokesperson. 
There are also 64 bird species and 260 to 280 types of higher vascular plants. 
The project is included in a scientific plan for the location and development of specially protected nature areas in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) until 2032 that can be extended until 2050, which has been approved by the government of the republic. 
The Lena-Olenyok reindeer population inhabits the tundra in northwestern Yakutia. This is the largest herded reindeer population, with an estimated 84,000 head, which supports the life style of the local indigenous peoples of the north. 
Karelia to develop perfect polar home 
A wooden house with a laboratory in it has been built in the Botanical Garden of the Petrozavodsk State University. It accommodates university specialists and their colleagues from the Murmansk Technical University who are going to study the efficiency of modern engineering solutions during the construction of wooden houses in the Arctic. 
Scientists from the Petrozavodsk State University and the Murmansk Technical University have developed a model laboratory for testing ‘green technologies’ and assessing their efficiency in northern territories, under the international project KO 1089 Green Building in the Arctic Region, part of the Kolarctic trans-border cooperation program,” the University’s press service said in a statement it released. 
A similar laboratory that will carry out work in the Murmansk Region will duplicate two parts of a wooden house. One part was built using wood-frame technology, and the other using double-insulated log cabin technology. 
The latter option seems more appropriate for Arctic areas than single-insulated log cabins. However, it is impossible to really use this method in the Murmansk Region since there is little timber there. The walls of the structures are filled with sensors that measure the room temperature as well as the humidity levels. Heat loss is also monitored. 
Experimental facilities, built under the project, will be used to assess the efficiency of various kinds of walls and fences and utility mains, as well as alternative energy sources and Smart Home devices. The model laboratory will be used to teach University students involved in various research projects,” said Assistant Professor Alexandra Kuzmenkova who is supervising one such program at the Petrozavodsk State University. 
Experts from Finland’s University of Oulu, Norway’s University of Tromso and Sweden’s Umea University will be involved in the research. 
Minister: The Arctic is a zone of interest for a number of countries 
The Arctic attracts the attention of the world’s most powerful countries, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov said at the Gaidar Forum on January 15. 
The Arctic has suddenly become the focus of attention for all humankind,” the minister noted. 
He explained this by climate change, which no one disputes any longer. The question is not whether the climate will become warmer, but how soon this will happen,” he pointed out. 
The minister said he believed that the Arctic had become a zone of strategic interest for a number of states, including those located a great distance from the Arctic. 
Alexei Chekunkov mentioned good prospects for increasing cargo transportation via the Northern Sea Route. 
Last year we transported 33 million metric tons [via the NSR]. We believe that the goal of 80 million metric tons can be achieved by 2025. This is not going to be easy, but we believe we can do this. We will have to work hard, but considering the icebreaker fleet we are building and the ice-class vessels the project initiators are building, we believe that transporting 80 million metric tons by 2025 and 130 million metric tons by 2035 are a realistic goal,” the minister noted. 
Arctic projects to be added to petrochemical industry development plan 
President Vladimir Putin has given an instruction for the roadmap of the petrochemical industry development until 2025 be updated by adding measures providing for the establishment of promising petrochemical clusters in the Arctic. The instruction was issued as a follow-up to the meeting on the petrochemical industry strategic development. 
According to the document, the roadmap should include oil, gas and gas condensate fields as well as the project for building an Arctic gas chemistry cluster in the vicinity of the Sabetta settlement in Yamal-Nenets Autonomous District. 
The presidential assignment states that the work plan on the petrochemical sector development should be updated by June 30. 
The same deadline was set for considering the expediency of amending tax legislation providing an opportunity of applying an investment coefficient that increases the deduction amount in the form of the calculated excise sum (higher excise included) by the entities using crude oil, straight-run gasoline and propylene as raw materials in their petrochemical production on condition that such entities are parties to investment contracts. 
Over 130 St. Petersburg enterprises to provide goods and services to Arctic regions 
Over 130 St. Petersburg enterprises will provide 4.79 billion rubles worth of state contracts for goods and services. 
According to the press service of the City Committee for the Arctic, all the contracts were signed with winners of open contests organized between April and December 2020. 
These are city organizations working in fields such as shipbuilding, healthcare, culture, transportation infrastructure, engineering, landscaping, environment and construction as well as companies working in ecology, ICT, and infrastructure development of the Northern Sea Route. Contracts were also signed with enterprises training specialists for nuclear icebreakers,” the press service said. 
In total, contracts were signed with organizations from nine Arctic regions: Arkhangelsk and Murmansk regions, Chukotka, the Nenets and Yamal-Nenets autonomous areas, republics of Karelia, Komi and Sakha, as well as the Krasnoyarsk Territory. As of today, the volume of contracts signed between St. Petersburg enterprises and the Arctic regions has grown five times more than last year. 
Earlier, on January 18, St. Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov met with Governor of the Murmansk Region Andrei Chibis. Implementation of the state policy in the Arctic was one of the main topics. 
Our regions are actively cooperating in Arctic exploration projects. Both Murmansk and St. Petersburg can gain useful experience from this,” Alexander Beglov said. 
We have an effective partnership. By exchanging competences, knowledge and technologies, we can develop cooperation,” Andrei Chibis noted. 
The governors also discussed matters related to the expansion of scientific, technical, trade and economic cooperation, including in culture and domestic tourism. Starting this February, three ad screens in the center of St. Petersburg will show videos on tourism to the Murmansk Region. 
MiG-31BM fighters to operate from polar airfields 
A new Arctic squadron consisting of Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-31BM fighters will be deployed on airfields along the Northern Sea Route, as well as on insular and mainland polar airfields. 
The unit was initially deployed in Monchegorsk in 2019 and it still remains its anchor base. Last year, the squadron’s pilots were involved in simulated operations along the Northern Sea Route. The exercise was a success, high-ranking military commanders said. 
According to Colonel Igor Malikov, an honored test pilot and a Hero of Russia, MiG-31BM fighters are well-suited to Arctic conditions. 
In principle, all our equipment can operate in temperatures ranging between plus and minus 50 degrees Celsius. The MiG-31BM is a sophisticated aircraft that can accomplish all tasks above the Arctic Circle. The long-range fighter boasts an effective radar system and new high-accuracy and long-range missiles. In effect, these planes can completely shield Arctic air space,” Malikov explained. 
The MiG-31, the most powerful fighter-interceptor in the world, features unique radar systems that can detect high-altitude hypersonic targets and cruise missiles moving surreptitiously at super-low altitudes. The interceptor’s takeoff weight exceeds 30 metric tons, with military personnel calling it an airborne warship. 
Environment Ministry could lift impact assessment requirement for exploration drilling in the Arctic 
The Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment is willing to replace the environmental assessment requirement for exploration drilling in the Arctic with additional environmental protection measures. 
I believe that we can cancel the project documentation requirement for the construction and renovation of boreholes in the Arctic, which will be replaced with conciliation procedures and additional environmental protection measures,” Minister Alexander Kozlov said at a meeting on environmental assessment with mining companies. 
According to one of the proposed requirements, the environmental protection section of project documents for geological exploration must specify the criteria and figures of permissible environmental impact. 
Another proposal concerns the assessment of project documentation for compliance with environmental protection laws, to be conducted by Rospotrebnadzor at the stage of the project’s coordination and assessment in accordance with the Subsoil Law. 
The meeting participants also discussed the importance of taking an inventory of temporarily and permanently abandoned prospecting and exploration wells, as well as keeping records of drilling and exploration wells for the purpose of mining in the register of environmentally hazardous sites. 
Federal Law No. 194 On State Support for Entrepreneurial Activities in the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation, which came into effect in August 2020, stipulates that all construction and reconstruction projects in the Arctic must undergo a state environmental assessment. Last fall, it was proposed that this requirement be lifted from social facilities located within the boundaries of settlements in the Arctic. The list of such facilities is to be approved by the federal government. 
Government to allocate 214 billion rubles for large Arctic projects 
The Russian government has approved a list of investment projects in the Arctic entitled to state support, including large ones with a total investment of more than 214 billion rubles. 
As Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin noted at a meeting with his deputies, the government has approved a list of Arctic investment projects that will receive state support.” 
Among them are several large projects with a total investment of over 214 billion rubles,” he added. 
Mishustin noted that business will be able to rely on government subsidies to build infrastructure that is necessary to open new production facilities in the northern territories. The government will support, among others, a project to build a steel plant and one to build a transshipment sea terminal for mineral fertilizers in the Murmansk Region. 
Other projects to receive government support involve a mining enterprise in the Novaya Zemlya archipelago and [development] of a coal deposit in Taimyr. Funds will also be allocated for the modernization of the Vitino port and the Belomorskaya oil depot,” the head of government said. 
The prime minister pointed out that the government is following the presidential instruction to promote comprehensive development of the Russian Arctic zone. Conditions are being established so as to be able to create more jobs and to make the northern territories a more attractive place to live,” Mishustin added. 
Book of Syo-Yakha Nenets folklore published on Yamal 
The Arctic Research Center of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area has published a second book in the Yamal Nenets Folklore series, the tales of the Syo-Yakha Nenets people. 
The book comprises seven fairytales, a parable and an epic song of lamentation written down by Larisa Okotetto, a Yamal journalist born in the Syo-Yakha tundra. This new Arctic Research Center publication includes texts that have been recorded in accordance with the norms of the written Nenets language but also depict the specific features of the Syo-Yakha narrators of folk tales. All of them have been translated into Russian. The book is designed for the general reader but will be especially interesting for those who are studying the Nenets language, folklore and culture,” according to the press service of the regional government. 
The book has been compiled by Neiko Yangasova, a leading expert of the Nenets language who has been collecting oral lore since 2007. In 2018 she prepared the first book in this series, which comprised the texts she had collected in the Priuralsky and Yamalsky districts, archival materials from the Nenets-language Nyaryana Ngerm newspaper and a few folklore items from private collections. 
The Arctic Research Center is compiling an online collection of oral lore of the small indigenous people of the North for the purposes of preservation, study, use and promotion. 
Russian Foreign Ministry assesses military threats in the Arctic 
Russia has assessed military threats in the Arctic as relatively low, said Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large of the Russian Foreign Ministry for International Cooperation in the Arctic. 
There are no problems requiring a military solution in the Arctic. All issues can and must be resolved at the negotiating table. We have assessed military threats in the Arctic as relatively low,” said Korchunov, answering a question on whether Moscow believed the Arctic could become a military-free zone. 
The Russian diplomat also noted NATO’s frequent military exercises involving non-Arctic states in the region. Korchunov added that such internationalization of military activity in the Arctic is largely tied to opportunities for exploring mineral resources and developing the Northern Sea Route and global transportation corridors in the Extreme North due to climate warming and Arctic ice melting. 
Nevertheless, by analyzing coastal countries’ military activities we can state that no one in the Arctic is preparing for a military conflict,” Korchunov noted. 
At the same time, he noted China’s activities in the Arctic zone: the country does not pose any threat but serves as an example of good behavior. 
Recently, China has been heavily criticized for taking a greater interest in the Arctic, due to alleged threats from Beijing. At the same time, it should be noted that this non-Arctic country refrains from military activities in the Arctic region, thereby helping keep low tension and a constructive atmosphere for interaction,” Korchunov said. 
The diplomat also noted that China makes a constructive contribution to the Arctic Council as an observer. 
Standards for Arctic residents’ responsibility to indigenous minorities comes into force 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic 
(Minvostokrazvitiya) has endorsed new standards of responsibility for Russia’s Arctic zone residents in relations with the indigenous minorities of the Arctic. 
Now a code of conduct towards the indigenous minorities of the North has been recommended to the resident companies in the Arctic. The ministry will monitor compliance with the new standards and will publish annual reports,” the ministry press service reports. 
This document includes standards that the residents are advised to observe in their relations with the representatives of the indigenous minorities of the North. They are supposed to do the following: 
- promote the sustainable development of the indigenous small-numbered peoples of the North, improve their living standards and preserve their primordial environment; 
- ensure the participation of representatives of the indigenous minorities in decision-making on the issues that affect their rights and interests during the exploration of natural resources in the places of their traditional residence and traditional economic activities; 
- cooperate with them in improving the socio-economic situation; and keep their performance as Arctic zone residents open to the public; 
- reduce the adverse effects of their economic activities to a minimum in this capacity. 
This is the first Russian document that regulates relations between resident companies and indigenous minorities. Previously, this practice was limited to international relations. 
The standards fix a list of principles in relations with the indigenous minorities of the North, Siberia and the Far East. It is important to ensure the observance of their interests in the exploration of territories, the development of production and when conducting economic activities. Although these standards are advisory, we hope these companies will see them as an inalienable condition of their activities in the territories of the traditional residence of the indigenous population,” said Grigory Ledkov, senator from the Legislative Assembly of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area, and President of the Association of the Indigenous Minorities of the North, Siberia and the Far East. 
In drafting these standards, experts took into account the experience of the companies operating in the Arctic. 
At present, there are 19 indigenous ethnic minority groups living in the North, Siberia and the Far East of the Russian Federation with a combined population of 102,000 people. 
Arctic tanks conduct preparatory fire in Murmansk Region 
About 10 Arctic T-80BVM tanks and more than 80 personnel took part in test firing at the range in the Pechengsky District of the Murmansk Region. 
Each crew fired three times with standard projectiles at emerging and moving targets from a 125-mm tank gun. The shooting was carried out on the move at targets located at a distance of 2,000 meters. Special focus was placed on the coordination of the crew. 
Moreover, the soldiers practiced firing at ground and air targets from a Kord large-caliber machine gun. They also trained in standard ammunition loading, transferring combat vehicles from traveling to combat, reconnaissance and target detection, and assembling and disassembling standard PKT and Kord machine guns. 
The T-80BVM tank is named Arctic” because it has a gas turbine engine adapted to operate in the Extreme North and the Arctic. It also has state-of-the-art weapons. The tank battalion of a separate motorized rifle brigade of the Northern Navy was completely re-equipped with these vehicles in 2019. 
Court fines Nornickel 146 billion rubles 
The Arbitration Court of the Krasnoyarsk Territory partially upheld the claim of the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources (Rosprirodnadzor) against the Norilsk-Taimyr Energy Company to recover more than 148 billion rubles as a fine for environmental damage due to the oil spill at the Norilsk thermal power plant No. 3. The fine was reduced to 146 billion rubles. 
[The court] orders the Norilsk thermal power plant to pay 146.177 billion rubles for environmental damage due to the accident at the hazardous fuel production facility, the Norilsk thermal power plant No. 3, including 145.493 billion rubles to the federal budget as compensation for damage to water bodies and 684.9 thousand rubles to the municipal district of Norilsk as compensation for damage to the soil,” Judge Natalya Varygina announced. 
In late May one of the fuel storage tanks at thermal power plant 3, owned by a Nornickel subsidiary, collapsed due to ground subsidence beneath its support structure. This resulted in over 20,000 tonnes of oil products spilling from the reservoir. Rosprirodnadzor estimated the environmental damage at about 148 billion rubles. However, Nornickel did not agree with the calculation methodology: according to the company, the damage amounted to 21.4 billion rubles. 
Northern Fleet rotates long-range Arctic interceptors 
The crews of Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-31BM Foxhound fighters and their warplanes serving with a detached combined air force regiment have been rotated at the Northern Fleet’s Rogachyovo airfield on Yuzhny Island following the first one-month tour of duty to guard Russian Arctic state borders under an experimental combat duty program. 
Lieutenant General Alexander Otroshchenko, Commander of the Northern Fleet’s Air and Air Defense Army, visited the island to inspect the working and living conditions of those under his command. He flew in a MiG-31BM aircraft from an anchor base on the Kola Peninsula to his landing place that was Novaya Zemlya, thereby assessing the upgraded plane’s reliability and performance,” the Northern Fleet’s press service reported. 
The Northern Fleet’s fighters-interceptors have been placed on experimental combat duty in Novaya Zemlya for the first time in modern Russian history. During this project, specialists will assess the potential for using fighters in high Arctic latitudes. Naval aviation pilots are accumulating experience of operating aircraft from all-season airfields of the Arctic Ocean’s islands where harsh weather conditions impact the use of aircraft. 
Low ambient temperatures, powerful sidewise winds, fog, low clouds, heavy snowfalls and other unpredictable occurrences of Nature are possible anytime, even occasionally contrary to weather forecasts. Consequently, Arctic flights always take place in actual weather reports. Pilots serving the first tour of duty were lucky because they were able to practice simulated intercepts,” the press service noted. 
No violators were spotted near Russian Arctic borders during the one-month tour of duty on Novaya Zemlya. The experimental deployment of fighters-interceptors at Arctic airfields considerably expands their combat potential in the high latitudes, and they can control additional air space over the Northern Sea Route, the national transport artery in the Russian Arctic. 
Ministry opens call for banks to join preferential lending program in the Arctic 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has begun to select Russian banks to participate in a preferential lending program for residents of the Arctic zone. Applications are accepted from February 9 to March 11, 2021. 
The program will offer loans at a final interest below the market rate, with the difference 50 percent bigger than the current Central Bank key rate (now 4.25 percent * 1.5 = 6.375 percent), while the lower limit is set at 2 percent per annum,” the ministry press office reports. 
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin approved the rules for granting loans under the program in December 2020. 
A number of resident companies in the Arctic zone have already shown interest in the program. The initial demand for preferential loans from those companies is estimated at 2.3 billion rubles,” Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov said. To apply for the subsidized loan interest rates, an investor must be an official resident of the Arctic zone of Russia. To be eligible, they must not be in the process of liquidation or bankruptcy, or have outstanding debts to the federal budget. 
To apply for preferential financing, the investment project should be worth from 10 million to 2.5 billion rubles, and if it is implemented by several borrowers, the upper limit is 5 billion rubles. The initiator of the project is required to invest at least 30 percent of the company’s own money and ensure the creation of new jobs,” the press office said. 
The selection results will be published on the official website of the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic by May 5, 2021. 
Yakut Film Festival in Moscow 
On February 11-16, Moscow’s Pioneer movie theater will be the venue of the Yakut Film Festival, organized together with the Permanent Mission of the Sakha (Yakutia) Republic to the President of the Russian Federation. It will be held each year. 
The festival’s program includes four films showing the diverse nature of the modern Yakut cinema industry. 
The thriller Black Snow that won the feature films competition at the Window to Europe 2020 Festival in Vyborg will open the current festival. The main protagonist, a greedy truck driver from Yakutia, finds himself in trouble and faces mortal danger. Following the film, a discussion involving its director, Stepan Burnashev, will take place. 
Eduard Novikov’s Tsar Bird, winner of the 2018 Moscow International Film Festival, takes us back to the 1930s and tells the story of a Yakut family haunted by ghosts of the past in the form of a bird. Kostas Marsan’s My Killer focuses on an investigator trying to locate the killer of a young woman. 
A film called There Is No God But Me about a sick mother who begins to forget her son is scheduled for the final day of the festival. Moviegoers will also get a chance to meet the film’s director, Dmitry Davydov, who will discuss its plot. 
All films will be shown in Yakut with Russian subtitles. 
Yamal study of effect of active biological light on human health and sleep 
The Tyumen State Medical University has been inviting people living in Yamal to take part in the Arctic Light research project that includes the installation of human-oriented light fixtures that take into account non-visual biological and emotional effects in homes and workplaces. 
The project is designed to improve the health, sleep and working performance of people living and working in Yamal and is being implemented in Russia for the first time. The five-year program will cover Salekhard, Nadym, Aksarka and Yar-Sale. A grant worth 150 million rubles has been allocated to support the research of the West Siberian Research and Educational Center. 
Yamal was picked for the reason that all the people there suffer from a lack of sunlight during the winter months and excessive sunlight in the summer. Both factors directly affect the physiology, sleep and working performance of a person. 
The smart lighting technology developed by the Tyumen State Medical University will neutralize the harmful effects of lack of natural light. The preliminary submission campaign has begun. We are inviting Yamal residents aged between 12 and 65, without any serious illnesses and alcoholic or narcotic abuse. They also must be permanent residents of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area without plans to relocate within the next five years,” said Artyom Gaponov, deputy head of the department of innovative development and projects at the department of external relations of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
Project participants will live in their usual environment and regularly have general and biochemical blood tests. After a year, their homes and workplaces will be equipped with smart lighting lamps that take into account individual parameters of the volunteers. They will also receive smart bands that will monitor sleep phases and the wakefulness-sleep cycle and read light effect indicators. As a result, concrete recommendations will be given to each individual regarding lighting and the introduction of smart lighting to neutralize the lack of natural daylight. 
According to Gaponov, volunteers will also benefit from the monitoring of their health for several years. 
Those willing to participate, can address the department of external relations of the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. In late March, the Arctic Light website will be launched with detailed information about the project. 
St. Petersburg governor and Finland’s foreign minister discuss economic and environmental collaboration 
St. Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov and Foreign Minister of Finland Pekka Haavisto have discussed cooperation in the economy, environment and cross-border and interregional ties. 
Alexander Beglov pointed out that the city’s ties with its Finnish partners had not decreased despite the pandemic and that many of the planned events had been held online. 
St. Petersburg is a leading partner when it comes to cross-border and interregional collaboration with the European Union. We are implementing 64 out of the 71 Russian-Finnish projects. Preparations are underway for launching new ones designed until 2027,” according to the governor’s press service. 
Beglov added that Finland is one of the largest trading partners of St. Petersburg and that there are 400 Finnish companies working in the city. 
Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto noted that Finnish companies believe that St. Petersburg has substantial investment potential, which helps keep up their interest for joint projects. The minister also spoke highly of the city authorities’ experience in dealing with the coronavirus pandemic and thanked them for providing the Finnish Consulate General with PPE. 
The governor and the Finnish foreign minister expressed hope that the borders would be reopened and that international tourism would resume soon, considering the good transport communications, such as high-speed trains, and the introduction of e-visas,” the press release says. 
The officials also mentioned Arctic development projects as a major sphere of their collaboration. St. Petersburg and other Arctic regions are willing to join the international Northern Periphery and Arctic Program and possibly to conduct joint climate and soil research if the Far North. 
About 90 events to be held during Russia’s Arctic Council Chairmanship 
Russia plans to hold almost 90 major events during its Arctic Council Chairmanship. 
In all, Russia has plans to hold 88 major events, including 50 official ones and 38 under the aegis of the Arctic Council, as part of its chairmanship. The events will be organized by 17 federal departments, 11 regions, 12 NGOs and educational institutions, and three large corporations (Rosatom, Sovkomflot and Nornickel). About 12,500 people are expected to take part in the official events alone. I am sure this venue will facilitate the adoption of a package of effective measures for the development of the Arctic,” said Presidential Advisor Anton Kobyakov, Deputy Chairman and Executive Secretary of the Organizing Committee. 
The agenda of the events will be divided into 10 thematic sections. 
In the context of the vigorous efforts of a number of Western countries, international events on the prospects of using the Northern Sea Route and international logistics are acquiring special importance. The Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic noted that the technology agenda may become a cross-cutting theme for all sections. Events on Arctic technology will be held in many sections: international, scientific and economic cooperation in the Arctic, infrastructure and sustainable navigation development, climate change and the environment, and emergency prevention,” the Committee’s Press Service reports. 
Expert groups on healthcare, socioeconomic and cultural issues and working groups on the sustainable development of the Arctic Council have been established on the platform of the Higher School of Economics (HSE). 
Association of small indigenous peoples wants traditional fisheries procedure explained 
The Association of Small Indigenous Peoples of the North KMNS Union has requested that the traditional fisheries procedure on the Taimyr Peninsula be explained in accordance with the rules for assigning fishing zones. 
The power to assign fishing grounds belongs to the region’s executive authorities. Therefore, we can apply directly to the Ministry of Environment and Rational Environmental Management of the Krasnoyarsk Territory. In addition, we would like the authorities to explain to all the ethnic communities on Taimyr their rights so that they can submit direct requests of the assignment of fishing grounds. We must wage an active awareness campaign in this regard,” said Antonina Gorbunova, head of the Executive Committee of the KMNS Union. 
According to the association’s information, a relevant request would be submitted soon to the Krasnoyarsk Territory Ministry of Environment and Rational Environmental Management. 
Sergei Sizonenko, Board Chair of the KMNS Union, said that although traditional fisheries are stipulated in the law, fishing grounds are not assigned to the indigenous communities on Taimyr. So, as a result, indigenous communities have to take part in tenders for the assignment of fishing grounds on a par with large fishing companies,” despite their limited financial resources. 
The Association of Small Indigenous Peoples of the North KMNS Union is planning to hold a seminar on the Taimyr devoted to the preservation and development of the indigenous people’s traditional fisheries. 
Russia calls for resumed contacts between Arctic states’ general staff chiefs 
Russia is ready to resume contacts between the chiefs of Arctic states’ general staff chiefs. 
I have repeatedly told my US colleagues that, in the past, there was a wonderful channel facilitating communications between the chiefs of Arctic states’ general staffs. It would be realizable to reinstate this possibility and to continue to interact,” said Anatoly Antonov, the Russian Federation’s Ambassador to the United States. 
Antonov also recalled that the Arctic was a subject on which the Russian Federation and the United States could negotiate. 
Just look what is happening in the media. They have reported on air strikes involving US bombers operating out of Norway that were hitting targets in Sweden. And we keep on saying about the fact that the Arctic and the area of the Arctic states is a zone of cooperation, peace, kindness and economic assistance,” the Ambassador added. 
Antonov also noted that all the accusations with regard to Russia, primarily those voiced by the US Armed Forces, related to the building up of its military potential in the Arctic were hardly a serious matter because Russia responds rather adequately to them. 
Earlier, Vice Admiral Andrew Lewis, Commander of the US Second Fleet, said that the United States was alarmed over the military aspect of Russia’s Arctic activities, although Washington admits that Moscow has every reason to expand its operations in this region. 
First Arctic tourist route available in St. Petersburg 
The first Arctic tourist route on offer in St. Petersburg begins at the Monument to All Polar Explorers on 38 Bering Street. 
The new route has been created within the framework of the Arctic tourism development project in St. Petersburg. In all, there will be five themed routes of the Arctic St. Petersburg cycle,” reads a press release of the city Committee for Tourism Development. 
The first route gets underway from the Monument to All Polar Explorers to the family grave of the Vilkitskys at the Smolenskoye Lutheran Cemetery, the Naval History Museum at the Admiral Makarov State Maritime Academy, and the icebreaker Krasin. 
The history of St. Petersburg is closely interlinked with the development of the Arctic. This connection provided the basis for creating travel routes, which are expected to attract children, students, families and individual tourists. <...> This presents an opportunity for St. Petersburg to become a national and international tourist hub and a starting point for Arctic travel,” said Sergei Korneyev, head of the Committee for Tourism Development. 
Other routes will be devoted to Arctic explorers, the war in the Arctic, St. Petersburg as the center of Arctic shipbuilding, and Kronstadt as the cradle of Arctic expeditions. 
Draft law on public procurement preferences for small businesses in the Arctic submitted to the Government 
Draft law on public procurement preferences for small businesses in the Arctic submitted to the Government 
A draft law on price preferences for small and medium-sized businesses in the Arctic participating in public procurement has been submitted to the Government. This was reported by Olga Smirnova, adviser to the Minister for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic at the Arctic-2021 international conference. 
According to her presentation, the draft law grants small and medium-sized enterprises in the Far North, price preferences on their suggested contractual prices of up to 15 percent. 
The adoption of this draft law will help even out the conditions for the competition during state and municipal purchases. This will create a long-term mechanism for encouraging businesses in the Far North and will facilitate the socio-economic development of its territories,” said Ms Smirnova during the presentation. 
She reported that over 60 investors have become residents of Russia’s Arctic and plan to create more than 5,200 jobs. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic, the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and the regions have produced 63 residents of the Arctic zone. About 80 percent of them are small and medium-sized enterprises,” Ms Smirnova reported. 
According to her, the residents reported 185.3 billion rubles of investments and plan to create 5,218 jobs. 
Mishustin orders Government to finance Arctic Children program 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has ordered the concerned officials to find funding for the Arctic Children program and has given them until May 30 to do so and also to study the possibility of including it in the state program for the Russian Arctic’s socio-economic development. 
Evaluate sources of funding for the Arctic Children program and study the possibility of including it in the Russian Federation’s state program Socio-Economic Development of the Arctic zone of the Russian Federation until May 30, 2021,” reads the list of instructions posted on the Government’s website. 
The instruction was submitted to the Ministry for the Development of Russia’s Far East and the Arctic, the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Labor and Social Protection and the Ministry of Finance. 
The goal of the Arctic Children program is to support new forms of education heeding the climatic and cultural specifics of the life of small Northern indigenous peoples as well as to improve children’s health and also to write and publish textbooks. 
Scientists study the ice crust that affects reindeer pastures in northern Yamal 
Researchers from the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area are studying the snow cover in the region. Experts believe that the ice crust has a negative impact on reindeer pastures. 
There have been signs of atypical climate conditions that affect the life of tundra animals to varying degrees from almost all northern countries of the world. For example, thick ice crust has been seen in Norway and Sweden. There are similar sites in the north of the Yamal Peninsula,” said the press service of the Arctic Research Center. 
Fifteen snow-measuring stations were set up during the joint expedition of the center and the Arctic Research Permanent Study Center of the Institute of Plant and Animal Ecology under the Urals branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
Experts picked sites with the most diverse landscapes that reindeer herders use as pastures. The detected ice and snow crust have developed from fallen snow in response to the pressure and humidity,” said Alexandra Pechkina, a research fellow at the environment protection section of the Arctic Research Center. 
She also noted that due to the thick ice crust, local reindeer herders had to switch to a new way of pasturing and allow animals to disperse far from chum tents and even mix with neighboring herds. 
Komi Republic to start issuing Arctic hectares on August 1 
On August 1, 2021, the Komi Republic will start issuing Arctic hectares that can be used for housing construction or for any economic activities. 
According to the draft federal law, applicants can receive up to one hectare of land per family member free of charge for a period of five years, and then register it as property or for a long-term lease. 
In the Komi Republic, the towns of Vorkuta, Usinsk and Inta, and the Ust-Tsilemsky District are part of the Arctic zone. People registered as residents of these municipalities will be eligible to receive land plots during the first six months of the law’s implementation, and after that, any citizen of Komi and Russia will have the opportunity. Participants of the state program to facilitate the voluntary resettlement of compatriots living abroad to the Russian Federation will also be able to receive an Arctic hectare. 
Adopting the Arctic Hectare and Arctic Mortgage programs as well as devising a mechanism to provide preferential (free) housing for large families in the Arctic zone should give further impetus to the development of the Arctic territories. At the same time, stopping the population outflow and ensuring comfortable conditions to realize human potential in the Arctic should not only be facilitated by new jobs, but also by creating innovative and energy-efficient residential, transportation and social infrastructure,” said Deputy Prime Minister of the Komi Republic Irina Bakhtina. 
A working group has been established to implement the Arctic Hectare program in the republic. It includes members of the regional government as well as representatives of federal and local agencies. 
Northern Sea Route to help consignors save up to 500 million euros annually 
Consignors will be able to save up to 500 million euros annually, while delivering freight along the Northern Sea Route. 
Given the current cost of carbon loans, freight deliveries via the Northern Sea Route can help save up to 500 million euros per year by reducing carbon emissions, as compared to similar shipments via the Suez Canal,” Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Anatoly Bobrakov said at a meeting of the ministry’s public council. 
According to Bobrakov, this estimate was obtained using a digital Arctic development model making it possible to comprehensively analyze and predict the region’s economic development, logistic and freight flows and environmental risks. 
Emissions are reduced by making the route much shorter. Consequently, the development of the Northern Sea Route can be economically beneficial as well as improve the environment,” Bobrakov added. 
In 2020, the Northern Sea Route handled about 33 million metric tons of freight. In February 2021, the large-tonnage LNG tanker Christophe de Margerie became the first ship to sail along the Northern Sea Route in winter. It completed the final high-latitude voyage this time of the year in the history of Arctic navigation. 
Online translation service to be created for small indigenous peoples 
Experts are creating an online translation service for 19 indigenous peoples, including those living in Russia’s Arctic regions. 
A meeting held to discuss the preparations for the upcoming Decade of Indigenous Languages proposed adding a number of events to the global plan of the Decade suggested by Russian and international experts. They highlighted the ongoing project to create and support nomadic schools and kindergartens for the Arctic regions, plus an online translation service for many indigenous peoples on which several IT corporations are working together,” according to a press release of the Board of the Association of Small Indigenous Peoples of the North KMNS Union issued following a meeting on the Decade of Indigenous Languages (2022-2032). 
The project is ongoing at the Cyrillica Center publishers and the Center of Arctic and Siberian Exploration (CASE) at the Sociological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences, with support from the International Shukhov Foundation. The online glossary they are compiling will be used for creating an online translation service on a platform already designed by a Russian corporation. 
The meeting on the upcoming Decade of Indigenous Languages, held in Almaty, Kazakhstan, was attended by representatives of the indigenous peoples of Eastern Europe, Russia and Central Asia. The two-day event concluded with a statement made by Jaco Du Toit, Chief of the Universal Access to Information Section at the Communication and Information Sector, UNESCO. 
Russia has accumulated a wealth of experience and capabilities for the Decade of Indigenous Languages. The relations between Russia’s indigenous peoples and government agencies allow us prioritize the opinions of indigenous peoples when it comes to the preservation of their native languages,” said Inessa Tomskaya, Deputy Board Chair of the North KMNS Union, as quoted in the press release. 
Russian Arctic development action plan submitted to government 
The Ministry for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic has submitted an action plan to implement the Russian Arctic development strategy, to the government. 
Yesterday I signed and submitted to the government an action plan for the development strategy in the Russian Arctic area. <…> It is an essential document. At a meeting with government members on March 10, President Putin gave us a month to adopt this document. The government received it yesterday,” reported Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and the Arctic Alexei Chekunkov at a meeting of the State Duma Committee on Regional Policy and Issues of the North and the Far East. 
The minister said he also expected the Arctic Hectare program to be launched shortly which is similar to the ongoing Far Eastern Hectare project. 
That’s another interesting idea. The Arctic has its specifics and charm. Private territory there could be used in a different way. What comes to mind first is travel and recreation. I don’t think agriculture in the Arctic will be as easy as in the south of the Far East. Although how about it?” 
Russian Deputy Foreign Minister and Iceland’s Ambassador discuss bilateral cooperation within Arctic Council 
Russia’s Deputy Foreign Minister Vladimir Titov and Ambassador of Iceland to Russia Arni Thor Sigurdsson discussed bilateral cooperation within the Arctic Council and the regional agenda. 
In May 2021, Iceland will cede its chairmanship of the Arctic Council to Russia that will preside in the Council for two years, until 2023. 
The officials discussed the current state of Russian-Icelandic relations and the prospects for the resumption of political contacts as restrictive measures are lifted, as well as topical regional affairs, including cooperation within the Arctic Council, taking into account the upcoming transition of chairmanship from Iceland to Russia in May 2021 for the next two years,” according to the Russian Foreign Ministry’s website. 
Earlier, Nikolai Korchunov, the Russian Foreign Ministry’s Ambassador at Large for International Cooperation in the Arctic, said Russia would continue efforts to minimize anthropogenic environmental damage to the Arctic during its chairmanship of the Arctic Council. 
The Arctic Council was established in 1996 under the Ottawa Declaration and is a high-level inter-governmental forum for facilitating regional cooperation, especially in the field of environmental protection. Member countries include Denmark with Greenland and the Faroe Islands, Iceland, Canada, Norway, Russia, the United States, Finland and Sweden. 
EU official: Russia and the EU have similar priorities within the Arctic Council 
According to European Union Special Envoy for Arctic Matters Michael Mann, Russia and the EU have similar priorities within the Arctic Council. 
Looking at the priorities of the upcoming Russian Chairmanship, Russia says that it plans to focus on economic, social and environmental sustainable development. These are also significant priorities of the EU’s engagement in the Arctic,” Michael Mann said. 
He also outlined the three main priorities of the EU’s Arctic policy: the fight against climate change and environmental protection; encouraging sustainable development; and ensuring the maximum level of international cooperation.” 
Clearly, Arctic populations demand economic opportunities like everyone else so that they can stay in the region and build a future. This must of course be done under responsible environmental conditions, so as not to threaten fragile Arctic ecosystems. We hope that we can work closely with the Chair [of the Arctic Council] and pass on some of the best practices that the EU has developed as a global leader in environmental protection,” Mann said. 
He added that the EU also works closely with Russia on environmental projects through the Northern Dimension policy framework. 
This work focuses on reducing emissions of black carbon, dealing with legacy nuclear pollution and cleaning water supplies. We hope we can deepen this work also through our substantial contributions to Arctic Council working groups and expert groups,” Mann explained. 
The EU has applied for observer status at the Arctic Council. While the application is pending, an agreement reached at the Arctic Council Ministerial Meeting in Kiruna, Sweden, in 2013 allows the EU to contribute to the work of the Arctic Council on terms similar to an observer. 
Ideally, we would like, and believe the application merits a positive decision but are able nevertheless to make a very practical contribution under current arrangements,” the EU Special Envoy for Arctic Matters said. 
US administration hopes Arctic Council will meet in spring 
The US administration believes that a ministerial-level meeting of the Arctic Council could be held in the spring despite the pandemic. 
Philip Reeker, Acting Assistant Secretary at the US Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, said during a briefing held via teleconference on the upcoming travel of US Secretary of State Antony Blinken to Belgium for the NATO Ministerial that the premier forum for discussing Arctic matters was the Arctic Council. 
The premier forum, really, for discussing matters of Arctic governance is the Arctic Council,” Mr. Reeker pointed out[КИА1] . 
We expect to have a meeting later in the spring, without any details pinned down yet, of the Arctic Council, a ministerial-level meeting. And that’s a forum we have used, I think very successfully, over many years to deal with these Arctic issues,” he said. 
He also noted that the United States envisions the Arctic region as one that’s free of conflict, where nations act responsibly and where the economic and energy resources are developed in a sustainable and transparent manner, with respect to the environment and also keeping in mind the interests and cultures of indigenous people there. So it’s really a comprehensive approach that we [the United States – Ed.] are seeking to the Arctic region, and we give it – give attention to a full range of interests,” Philip Reeker said. 
Cabinet approves program to develop LNG project until 2035 
The Russian government has approved a long-term program for the development of high-tonnage natural gas liquefaction. 
A long-term LNG development program has been approved. It will create additional opportunities for connecting more Russian regions to the gas grid, including in the Far East and the Arctic. It is a priority task that was set by the President,” Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin said at a meeting with deputy prime ministers. 
A five-year roadmap for the development of the low-tonnage segment of the LNG market had been adopted earlier, he added. 
The program is based on an integrated approach, aimed at diversifying gas supply sources and, above all, at fully using offshore resources in the Arctic and the Far East. The country’s gas liquefaction capacity should triple over the next 15 years. To achieve that target, attractive conditions will be created for investors to implement projects in this area, as well as in related industries. Furthermore, state regulation mechanisms will be improved to stimulate wider use of domestic technologies in the gas industry,” the Prime Minister said. 
Along with expanding LNG production, plans call for creating a foundation for increasing consumption, that is, to develop infrastructure so the regions can be connected autonomously to the gas system. We also need to expand government support measures for more efficient and greater use of NGV fuel in the transport sector. It is also important to increase exports, given that the global demand for LNG is growing fast, partly due to its greater environmental friendliness. All this will contribute to the development of the gas sector and industry, it will strengthen regional economies and expedite their connection to the gas system, it will help achieve tangible results faster with regard to the national development goals set by the President,” Mikhail Mishustin. 
Prime Minister Mishustin issued instructions to develop this program following a trip to the Far East in August 2020. LNG production in Russia could reach 140 million tons by 2035. Due to the potential LNG projects, Russia can almost triple LNG production by 2035 and additionally produce and monetize 2.5 trillion cubic meters of gas by 2040. This should also bring about $150 billion in additional investment in the Russian economy by 2030. The draft program includes more than 10 liquefaction plant projects that are currently at varying stages of consideration. 
According to the Government press service, the volume of LNG production in Russia could almost triple to 140 million tons by 2035 – the target stipulated in the program. 
The document lists various measures aimed at making the industry more competitive. One of the proposals is to equalize the conditions of state support for LNG projects implemented in the same climatic zones, and to conduct regular monitoring of large production facilities under construction. Incentives will also be provided for gas exploration in the Arctic, which should lead to the discovery of new fields. 
Greater use of Russian technology should be the most important prerequisite for faster development. This should include new equipment for gas liquefaction and purification, special compressors, cryogenic units, autonomous LNG-energy units and integrated control systems. Russian companies that can produce this equipment will be offered government support. 
Another area of ​​work is low-tonnage LNG production. New projects in this area will expedite connecting the regions to the gas distribution system and provide energy to facilities located far from major gas pipelines. 
Overall, the implementation of this program will help unlock the resource potential of Yamal, Gydan and northern Krasnoyarsk Territory, as well as, in the long term, the Arctic shelf; it will attract new investors and boost Russian LNG exports. This, in turn, should create thousands of jobs, and raise living standards locally,” the Cabinet of Ministers noted. 
Butterflies sighted at northern edge of Novaya Zemlya for the first time 
Researchers have sighted butterflies (Lepidoptera Linnaeus) on Cape Zhelaniya on Novaya Zemlya’s Severny (Northern) Island for the first time during an environmental monitoring survey. 
Specialists sighted the butterflies during their fieldwork in the summer of 2020, while collecting environmental data. 
Our employees had time to watch a butterfly and to take pictures of it. This is the first such incident in the national park because no butterflies have been spotted here before,” said Ivan Mizin, Deputy Director for Research at Russian Arctic National Park. 
Researchers from the Academician Lavyorov Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research, affiliated with the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, identified the butterfly as Nymphalis xanthomelas, the scarce tortoiseshell; this boreal forest species is not endemic to the high Arctic latitudes. Their main job was to find out how this butterfly reached the northernmost tip of Novaya Zemlya, a polar desert lacking the required vegetation. Moreover, these butterflies are unable to traverse long distances. 
Biologists in Arkhangelsk analyzed data on similar butterfly migrations to the Arctic. Researchers have recorded several other similar migrations, caused by drifting continental air masses, before the summer of 2020. In 1978, butterflies landed on the Spitsbergen (Svalbard) Archipelago, their deepest Arctic penetration to date. The latest Novaya Zemlya discovery comes second in this respect. 
Researchers from the Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research, affiliated with the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences, reenacted the sequence of events and heeded the shortest distances between the butterflies’ Novaya Zemlya location and the nearest areas in mainland Russia. 
We reenacted the situation one day before the butterflies landed on Cape Zhelaniya. The entire situation remained stable for three to five days. The first encounter in July was linked with a powerful and warm air mass drifting at high speed from Yamal Peninsula. In August, another warm air mass arrived from the east, that is, from Taimyr Peninsula. The butterfly therefore flew over a 580-650-kilometer water barrier together with prevailing air flows,” Ivan Bolotov, Director of the Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research and an Associate Member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, noted. 
He links the arrival of migrating butterflies to Novaya Zemlya with population explosions” in Yakutia which, in turn, are a consequence of the warm climate season. The caterpillars of the large tortoiseshell or blackleg tortoiseshell (Nymphalis polychloros) butterflies develop on willows. The good state of willow forests and mild weather facilitate their all-out reproduction and migration toward the Arctic Ocean coast, from where some butterflies are blown off course and reach Arctic archipelagoes. 
This unique discovery highlights climate change. Warmer weather causes part of the butterfly population to migrate north. Butterflies are a fine-tuned biological indicator of Arctic warming, and we can see what serious processes are now unfolding in living Nature,” Ivan Bolotov said in conclusion. 
Northern Sea Route online: Arktika-M satellites to monitor changing sea-ice formations and temperatures 
Arktika-M satellites will observe the Northern Sea Route online; their cameras will have a resolution of 1,000 to 4,000 meters, and they will measure temperatures with an accuracy of 0.1-0.2 degrees Celsius. 
The satellites’ equipment conducts simultaneous observations in ten spectral bands, including seven heat bands, and this will facilitate both day-time and night-time monitoring,” said Yury Gektin, Deputy Chief of the Section for Developing and Creating Multi-Zone Scanning Systems at Shareholding Company Russian Space Systems. 
These satellites will eventually relay data every 15, 20 or 30 minutes, while conducting observations 24 hours a day. 
Every 15, 20 or 30 minutes, an Arktika-M spacecraft can measure temperatures in each section of the Arctic zone,” he added. 
This will be made possible by the satellites’ highly elliptical orbit. The satellites will therefore collect meteorological and hydrological data about the state of the northern latitudes, and their scanning equipment will take nonstop multi-scale images. All parameters will be relayed to the mission control center, enabling it to create atmospheric models for more accurate weather forecasts, to be used by aircraft and ship crews. 
Monitoring sea-ice formations will become another important task of the satellite cluster. 
By taking so many images, it will become possible to watch the movement of ice-floes and to locate large and wide cracks,” the designer noted and added that this would help organize navigation along the Northern Sea Route. 
Northern Fleet marines learn to drive reindeer and dog sleds 
Intel officers of the Northern Fleet separate marine brigade have conducted their first on-field exercises to master the traditional means of transport of the indigenous peoples of the Far North – reindeer and dog sleds – under the guidance of experienced instructors. 
The exercises were held on a reindeer farm located in the center of the Kola Peninsula, near the village of Lovozero, Murmansk Region. 
The servicemen were trained by experienced local mushers. They talked about the peculiarities of keeping and training animals and shared their skills in driving reindeer teams,” reported the Fleet’s press service. 
According to the Northern Fleet, dog sleds were delivered specifically for on-field training of the marines from the village of Alakurtti, from the location of the Northern Fleet separate Arctic motorized rifle brigade. They were brought in by military instructor Nadezhda Timonina, who is professionally engaged in sledding sports – dog sled racing – and teaches this skill to Arctic motorized riflemen. 
In the area of ​​the Lovozero tundra, the marines tried to drive the animals harnessed to sledges, and also worked out the tactics of raiding operations in the Arctic,” the message says. 
The training included lessons on how to manage reindeer and dog sleds, during which the Northern Fleet marines also worked out their survival skills in the natural conditions of the Far North and the Arctic. 
Medvedev: Russia strives to preserve the Arctic as a territory of peace and partnership 
Russian Security Council’s Deputy Chairman Dmitry Medvedev said the Russian Federation strove to preserve the Arctic as a territory of peace and mutually beneficial partnership, but that certain states were still trying to weaken its positions in the region. 
While accomplishing Arctic development tasks, we’re striving to preserve the region as a territory of peace and stable and mutually beneficial partnership,” he noted at a meeting of the Security Council’s Inter-Departmental Commission to Ensure the Russian Federation’s National Interests in the Arctic. 
He added that certain states were still trying to weaken Russia’s regional positions, to expand their military activities and to ratchet up sanctions pressure. Moscow should therefore expand dialogue with all countries aiming to maintain constructive cooperation with Russia. 
According to Medvedev, this work will be conducted during Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. It is important to use this format for advancing Russian initiatives in the Arctic and defending our national interests,” he pointed. 
He also called for drafting measures to preserve the Arctic environment. 
I would like to note that we need to make the Arctic region safer, and this is our top priority. This implies measures to strengthen military units located there and a frugal attitude toward environmental matters,” Medvedev noted. 
He also said that plans for developing the Russian Arctic are linked with the development of coastal hydrocarbon resources and those on the Arctic seas’ shelf; they are also linked with the creation of new industrial facilities and transport corridors.” 
This can seriously damage Arctic nature and the health of the local residents. It is necessary to look into measures for preserving the region’s environmental stability, protecting it from industrial accidents, and it is also necessary to reduce risks linked with climate change and to adapt the Arctic economy and infrastructure to them,” Medvedev explained. 
He also underscored the need to increase Russia’s technological independence in the Arctic at a time when national companies have limited access to foreign technologies. 
Lemming population, isolated 90,000 years ago, discovered in Novaya Zemlya 
Researchers from the Federal Center for Integrated Arctic Research of the Ural Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences have discovered a new lemming subspecies in Novaya Zemlya. Earlier the animals were classified as belonging to the Siberian brown lemming (Lemmus sibiricus) subspecies. After experts decoded their genome, it became obvious that they are part of the Norwegian lemming (Lemmus lemmus) subspecies. 
This is a new isolated Norwegian lemming subspecies. We have described it and named it in honor of Yury Chernov, a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, an Arctic researcher, a famous scientist and zoologist who, unfortunately, passed away in 2012,” Ivan Bolotov, the Federal Center’s director, noted. 
Earlier, it was believed that two lemming subspecies, namely, the Siberian brown lemming (Lemmus sibiricus) and the Arctic lemming (Dicrostonyx torquatus) inhabit Novaya Zemlya. However, the so-called Siberian brown lemming turned out to be a subspecies of the Norwegian lemming. We have sequenced lemmings from the Lemmus genus, and we have learned that Norwegian lemmings, and not Lemmus sibiricus, as had earlier been believed, live in Novaya Zemlya. However, they look completely different. There are no large black spots on the backs of their heads, and their coats do not have a bright-red hue. Nevertheless, this turned out to be a Norwegian lemming or its genetic line that already has subspecies status. To describe a new mammal subspecies in the Arctic is a real sensation because few mammals live there. We did not expect this to happen,” Vitaly Spitsyn, a junior research associate with the Federal Center’s Russian Museum of Biodiversity Centers, explained. 
The animals were sighted during expeditions to the Maliye Karmakuly polar station in Bezymyannaya Isthmus on the western coast of the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago’s Yuzhny (South) Island. 
Earlier, it was believed that Norwegian lemmings mostly occur in the Kola Peninsula and Scandinavia. They have distinctive bright-red coats with black spots that distinguish them from other subspecies. Specialists believe that this color of their coats helps them hide from predators, especially in autumn when yellow leaves fall from tree branches in the Kola Peninsula, and when dark stones and soil sections can be seen in between. Members of the Novaya Zemlya population are rather dull in color, with slightly reddish hind quarters. 
Today, we know that populations went their own separate ways about 90,000 years ago. It therefore turns out that the Kola lemmings’ brightly colored coats evolved over this period. It is very interesting to note in the context of evolution that natural selection can work quickly and create stable brightly colored coats at the genetic level in less than 100,000 years. This is fantastic,” Bolotov noted. 
The Novaya Zemlya lemmings are larger than their mainland Norwegian relatives. This is another reason explaining why they were classified as belonging to the Siberian lemming subspecies of just about the same size. 
The Novaya Zemlya lemmings are larger than those inhabiting the Kola Peninsula. This fits into the overall Bergmann’s rule, which states that animals living farther north and east, or in harsher environments, are larger than their relatives roaming the warmer southern territories,” Spitsyn explained. 
According to the researcher, the size of the new and potentially vulnerable Novaya Zemlya lemming subspecies’ population remains unclear. Lemmings experience major population explosions, followed by all-out depressions. 
It is important that this population be preserved until the next population explosion in the event of a depression and its substantial decrease. We would lose this unique subspecies, if it becomes completely extinct during this depression,” Spitsyn added. 
Vladimir Putin: Arctic expeditions must continue in order to ensure Russia’s military security 
The comprehensive exercises in the Arctic showed the ability of the Russian fleet to operate in the harsh conditions of the North; such expeditions should continue, said Vladimir Putin to Commander-in-Chief of the Russian Navy Nikolai Yevmenov after the admiral presented his report on the Umka-2021 comprehensive Arctic expedition. 
These combat training, research and practical measures have demonstrated the Russian Navy’s abilities and preparedness to operate in the harsh northern latitudes,” said Vladimir Putin after listening to the report via videoconference. 
He noted that the submarine, military transport aircraft and fighter aircraft crews, as well as Arctic motorized rifle units have shown improvements in combat training in the harsh Arctic environment. Our domestic weapons’ high combat capability and reliability in extreme weather conditions have been confirmed,” Vladimir Putin emphasized. 
The president noted that this Arctic expedition was unprecedented in both Soviet history and the modern history of the Russian Federation. He also conveyed words of gratitude to the personnel who participated in the expedition and the exercises, for their courage, dedication and professionalism. 
The integrated Arctic expeditions, studies and exploration of the Far North in order to ensure Russia’s military security must be continued,” the president said. 
According to Yevmenov, Umka-2021 has been held by the Chief Command of the Navy since March 20. A package of operational, training, research and practical undertakings of different designations is being carried out under an integrated plan in the polar regions for the first time. The plan provides for 43 objectives on Alexandra Land, part of the Franz Josef Land archipelago, and the adjacent ice-covered waters. The average temperature there now is −25˚C to −30˚C; the ice thickness is up to 1.5 meters, with winds up to 32 meters per second. 
As Nikolai Yevmenov reported, the Umka-2021 expedition in the Arctic included practice torpedo firing from a nuclear submarine under the ice. After the training torpedo stopped beneath the ice, it was located with technical equipment and retrieved to the surface,” he said. 
Russian Arctic to get global research and technological center 
A global research, educational and technological center will be established in the Russian Arctic under a government-approved program for developing the Northern (Arctic) Federal University up to 2035, according to Deputy Prime Minister Dmitry Chernyshenko. 
The new development prospects of the University, located where the great Russian scientist Mikhail Lomonosov was born, is linked with a project to do with setting up a world-class intellectual center. It will be responsible for training new specialists, analyze development options of the Arctic territories, conduct research projects and introduce their results,” Chernyshenko said. 
He also noted that the center would also actively implement international cooperation projects. 
This concerns the training foreign students and active cooperation with scientists from various countries who will strive to come to Russia for implementing ambitious Arctic research projects,” Chernyshenko explained. 
Following the University’s development program, the Arctic zone will be integrated into the country’s hi-tech economic segments. The overall socio-economic and innovative development of the Arctic territories is also expected to accelerate. 
Certainly, our main goal is to ensure the Arctic population’s high quality of life, to preserve the habitat of small indigenous ethnic groups and to protect the environment,” Chernyshenko concluded. 
Russia to actively discuss Northern Sea Route at global venues 
Moscow is going to actively promote the Northern Sea Route (NSR) at global venues in order to ensure sustainable navigation. 
Russia is consistently taking measures to develop safe navigation in high latitudes, using both multilateral platforms, such as the International Maritime Organization and the Arctic Council, and bilateral mechanisms. The NSR development plan includes progressing along a number of interconnected tracks that form the necessary elements for sustainable navigation, including the reconstruction of seaports and terminals, the development of the rescue and auxiliary fleet, navigation and hydrographic support, the development of the icebreaker fleet, assistance in developing freight traffic, ensuring environmental safety, and developing energy capacities and shipbuilding, as well as the formation of an appropriate ground and aviation infrastructure,” said Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large for the Arctic Cooperation and Russia’s Senior Arctic Official. 
According to Korchunov, Russia will focus on these topics during its presidency in the Arctic Council and the Arctic Economic Council (AEC) in 2021–2023, including in AEC working groups for sea transportation and infrastructure development. 
The Information Forum of Best Practices in the Field of Arctic Shipping under the Arctic Council Working Group on the Arctic Marine Environment Protection Program, which Russia will chair for the next two years, also helps to promote Arctic navigation,” the diplomat said. The NSR will also be discussed at international Arctic conferences, including the International Arctic Forum traditionally held in St. Petersburg. 
The coordinated work of all structures responsible for the development of NSR makes it possible to extend the duration of winter and autumn navigation. In February 2021, Novatek and Rosatom carried out a very early pilotage of tankers with liquefied gas along the eastern sector of the Northern Sea Route, accompanied by an icebreaker, the first time this has been done so early in the season. This accomplishment has been much appreciated by international companies, including consumers and investors, such as those in Novatek projects,” Korchunov concluded. 
It is noteworthy that the Finnish design bureau Aker Arctic has also got down to working on shipments along the NSR. Following the recent Suez Canal blockage, the company unveiled a new Arctic container ship for year-round use along the Russian Northern Sea Route. 
Aker Arctic has developed a completely new concept for the Northern Sea Route, an icebreaking Arctic container ship, which can be used year-round to cover the much shorter distance between Asia and Europe. The company designed an 8,000 TEU container ship for independent use in both summer and winter along the Northern Sea Route,” the statement says. 
The vessel will have a reinforced Arc7 ice-class hull, an icebreaker bow and other design features for operation in cold climate. It will be a double-acting vessel, capable of going stern-forward in heavy ice. In light ice or in open water, a 300-meter-long vessel will sail bow-first, like all others. 
Therefore, the much shorter northern distance becomes interesting if a decent speed can be achieved in winter and schedules can be relied on, which is now possible with our new design,” noted Aker Arctic representative Luigi Portunato. 
Compared with the Suez Canal route, the distance from China to European ports along the Russian Northern Sea Route is about 40 percent shorter. 
Russian Government to finance construction of Arctic hydrographic ship 
Mikhail Mishustin has signed a resolution on allocating over seven billion rubles to build a hydrographic ship for Arctic latitudes; it will enter into service in 2024. 
Over seven billion rubles will be invested in the construction of a lead hydrographic ship for the Northern Sea Route. Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has signed the relevant resolution,” the Government’s press service noted. 
The Arc-7 ice class ship can plow through 1.4-1.7-meter thick ice, depending on which season it is, or it can operate in more difficult environments, escorted by icebreakers. 
The eight megawatt ship will feature modern navigational and hydrographic equipment. This will allow the ship to accomplish various missions, to ensure safe navigation, to study water-surface specifics and seabed reliefs. The ship is to enter into service in 2024,” according to the press release. 
The Government has explained that the decision will make it possible to partially meet the demand of raw materials companies and other Northern Sea Route users for hydrographic support. 
The new ship will be built under a federal project for the development of the Northern Sea Route; the project aims to unlock the Route’s potential and to turn it into a world-class transport corridor. 
Peskov: The President believes Russian military presence in the Arctic to be absolutely necessary 
President Vladimir Putin believes that Russian military presence in the Arctic is absolutely vital, given that the United States is also interested in the region. 
The commander-in-chief really considers Russian military presence in the Arctic to be an absolutely necessary component in the development of military capability. The area of the Arctic is a very important region of the Russian Federation,” stated Presidential Press Secretary Dmitry Peskov. 
He noted that the region’s economic potential is growing with every year and that there are extensive plans for developing the Arctic region. 
Peskov also commented on the Pentagon’s statement expressing concern about the strengthening of Russian military presence in the Arctic. 
As for our American colleagues’ concern, we should not forget in this regard that America has never given up its military presence in the Arctic zone,” said the Presidential Press Secretary. We have always noticed it and also proceeded from the idea that we should not ignore that critically important region either.” 
Maxim Kulinko: Rosatom works purposefully to create modern Northern Sea Route infrastructure 
Maxim Kulinko, Deputy Director of Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation’s Northern Sea Route Directorate, talked with Arctic.ru correspondent Kristina Khramtsova and discussed ways to increase freight traffic volumes to 80 million metric tons by 2024. They also talked about measures to offer year-round navigation. 
FULFILLING THE PRESIDENT’S MAY 2018 EXECUTIVE ORDER 
Question: In May 2018, President Vladimir Putin signed an executive order on increasing the Northern Sea Route’s freight volume to 80 million metric tons by 2024. Do shipping companies and the manufacturers have the assets and enough infrastructure along the Northern Sea Route (NSR) and in Arctic ports to deliver the kind of volume in the president’s executive order? 
Maxim Kulinko: Certain basic projects can increase freight volume to 80 million metric tons. In late 2020, Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin visited Murmansk and instructed corporate managers to deliver more freight via the Northern Sea Route by 2024. The breakdown is as follows: Novatek: 35.5 million metric tons; Rosneft: 30 million tons; Gazprom Neft: 6.7 million; Norilsk Nickel: 1.7 million, for a total of about 74 million metric tons. The instructions include these volumes. Considering the other projected freight volumes, the presidential target will be attained. 
Regarding the infrastructure, Gazprom Neft’s Novoportovskoye oil and gas condensate field and Norilsk Nickel are projects with the infrastructure capacity. Novatek projects for liquefied natural gas production already have some of the required infrastructure. Long-term corporate step-by-step development plans are in place. The Rosneft project is developing in a similar manner, and a port in Sever (North) Harbor will be built prior to creating the needed infrastructure in 2023-2024. This port will also have the necessary capacity. 
Question: What are the risks that could hamper plans for achieving 80 million metric tons target? 
Maxim Kulinko: In 2020, everyone was surprised to see energy markets plummet due to the pandemic. Some investors had to postpone their project plans; we see this as a key risk because it affects market relationships. 
Question: Many experts doubt the possibility of hauling 80 million metric tons of freight by 2024. As a method for boosting the Northern Sea Route’s freight traffic volumes to these levels, it was suggested expanding the NSR’s water surface and including Murmansk and Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. Is this possible? 
Maxim Kulinko: Yes, we were instructed to monitor this possibility. Everything began when the Ministry for the Development of Russian Far East and Arctic and we suggested including a new term: the Northern Sea Transport Corridor, in the Strategy for the Development of the Russian Arctic until 2035. This was conceived as a legally sound concept and as a new geographical term or notion defining or outlining a new transport corridor for the Eurasian continent that could promote sustainable economic ties between Russia’s northwestern part and Far East, including the NSR, without changing its legal status and without running counter to international law. Tying regions like Arkhangelsk, Murmansk and Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky together via an integral maritime trade chain is seen as an important managerial decision. This also has major implications for global logistics that include international transit matters. 
While discussing the strategy, it was suggested that the new concept should not be introduced. Instead, we instructed a number of federal government agencies to study the possibility of expanding the Northern Sea Route, which officially spans the territory from Murmansk to Kamchatka. 
We met with the Ministry of Transport, the Foreign Ministry and other concerned parties. They all agreed that, at this point, it was premature to interpret the Northern Sea Route in broader terms. 
Citing international practice, the Foreign Ministry noted that it could mislead our foreign partners in some ways, but that’s not the main thing. 
Most importantly, under the 1982 UN Convention on the Law of the Sea, coastal states have a right to pass non-discriminatory environmental protection legislation inside their exclusive economic zones, provided that these waters are blocked by ice formations that pose a major navigation hazard most of the year. In other words, the NSR needs a special procedure to authorize the passage of ships. This procedure is related to a ship’s technical specifications and to the seasons. By the way, the same regulations apply to Canada’s Northwest Passage. 
The Russian Federation’s Merchant Shipping Code clearly defines the Northern Sea Route’s boundaries. Legally extending the NSR to Murmansk and into ice-free seas could cause many negative questions internationally. Officials from the Ministry of Transport expressed a similar concern. The NSR’s Directorate also had some questions regarding property and infrastructure management in the event of expanding the NSR. So, this approach was suspended. 
At that time, many people believed that the Northern Sea Transport Corridor concept had something to do with efforts to increase the NSR’s freight volume to 80 million tons; but this was not the case. It actually implies the creation of stable national maritime transport communications and the socio-economic development of coastal territories. 
We have input that supports the advantages of this approach. The governors of the territories bordering the NSR and maintaining economic ties via Arctic waters have suggested the concept of the Greater Northern Sea Route from St. Petersburg to Vladivostok, including the ports of Murmansk and Arkhangelsk, Kamchatka and Sakhalin. This approach would allow these regions to obtain additional state support for some infrastructure projects. 
The other day, the Russian Government held a conference on coastal freight traffic. The participants mostly supported the governors’ initiative and issued instructions on assessing this proposal more thoroughly. I would like to note that this alternative would make it possible to transport at least 80 million metric tons of freight by 2024 exactlyvia the Northern Sea Route. 
ATTAINING STRATEGIC TARGETS 
Question: The Strategy for the Development of the Russian Arctic until 2035 notes that the Northern Sea Route handled 31.5 million metric tons in 2019, and that 130 million metric tons are stipulated for 2035. How can we achieve this kind of growth? 
Maxim Kulinko: This can be accomplished partly by further expanding large LNG production projects, and projects for producing crude oil, copper concentrate and coal. Our colleagues have compiled specific plans for this. I would even say that 130 million metric tons is conservative. 
A working group for cooperating with investors, part of the State Commission for Arctic Development, has predicted the NSR’s freight traffic volumes until 2035. According to our estimates, freight volume in 2035 is to exceed this total. The breakdown is: Yamal LNG: 19.7 million tons; Arctic LNG 2: 27.9 million tons; Arctic LNG 1: 22.8 million tons; Vostok Oil: 115 million tons and the Syradasaiskoye deposit: 30 million metric tons. 
We also expect freight transits to increase. I won’t go into these statistics because the analysts give us different estimates. Nevertheless, we expect freight transits to make a substantial contribution to increased volume by 2035. 
Question: Plans include year-round navigation along the NSR in 2025-2030 under the Strategy for the Development of the Russian Arctic until 2035. Why can’t this be done during the initial stage, that is, in 2020-2024? 
Maxim Kulinko: We should clarify what part of the NSR we’re talking about. The western section already provides year-round navigation. So far, the eastern section infrastructure, including icebreaker support, the availability of ice-resistant freighters, safety, the preparedness of emergency rescue divisions, and communications, prevent us from providing year-round navigation. We are methodically creating a modern infrastructure that will meet the best international standards, despite the adverse weather conditions and other factors. 
Apart from a series of Project 22220 icebreakers, we hope very much that we will make substantial headway in providing year-round navigation, and once the Project 10510 Rossiya icebreaker, the Lider class, is completed. We expect it to enter service in 2027. 
Question: In one of his interviews, Director of Rosatom’s Northern Sea Route Directorate Vyacheslav Ruksha noted that three icebreakers would make it possible to launch regular year-round navigation. 
Maxim Kulinko: I believe his words were misinterpreted slightly. The Russian Arctic will require ten nuclear icebreakers by 2030. Of this number, five icebreakers would operate in the western section, and three would be on duty in the most difficult areas of the eastern section. The other icebreakers would escort individual shipments. 
NORTHERN SEA ROUTE INFRASTRUCTURE 
Question: Regarding infrastructure, what is the state of Russia’s Arctic ports? How does this influence the implementation of your goals? 
Maxim Kulinko: Most of our Arctic ports were built during the Soviet era. Of course, we would like them to be more advanced and to handle specific commodities. 
For example, Tiksi, which years ago used to handle about 1 million metric tons of freight, has now become a shallow port. Some piers, quays and related infrastructure won’t allow modern ambitious investment projects. However, the port continues to operate and facilitates summer freight transloading. 
On the other hand, the specialized Sabetta port, built by Novatek, is needed for the largest Arctic LNG project. It ranks among the most advanced Russian port facilities. 
We are now planning to build new ports under new investment projects, including coal projects and the Baimskaya ore zone. These ports or terminals are currently being designed, and they will meet top world standards. By the way, a new terminal will be built not far from Tiksi, near the village of Naiba, because the waters there are quite deep, and sea-going ships with a draft of ten meters will be able to dock there. 
The situation varies from port to port. This is why the Russian Prime Minister has instructed the Ministry of Transport and the concerned agencies and organizations to draft a strategy for developing the Russian Arctic’s ports and to link them with road, railway and air transport. We are involved in this, and the results are to be included in the Transport Strategy until 2035. 
Question: Are you prioritizing the construction of new ports or the reconstruction of existing ones? 
Maxim Kulinko: It depends on the economy. It is quite expensive to build all-new Arctic infrastructure. We will redevelop or build new ports as freight volumes require. For example, Pevek can handle the potential freight volume, and a strategic investor is available there. Rosmorport is currently completing the reconstruction of the old port’s piers; and an entirely new terminal, to be built near Cape Naglyoinyn, will help develop the Baimskaya ore zone. 
New energy generating facilities will be created. Small floating power stations will generate electricity. Piers for shipping the ore we plan to extract will also be built. Again, the development of new ports under current conditions is largely dependent on specific investment projects. 
Question: Are you creating an emergency evacuation and medical assistance system for ship crews in the NSR region? 
Maxim Kulinko: Plans for this are underway. The High Seas Rescue Service, under the Federal Agency for Sea and Inland Water Transport, is responsible for emergency rescue operations along the NSR. Our colleagues have included the funding for new search and rescue ships. 
The Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation has drafted and approved a roadmap listing the required rescue equipment, as well as for containing oil spills and upgrading medical units aboard nuclear icebreakers. We are also planning organizational measures along with the Ministry of Transport and the Federal Medical and Biological Agency. We have some tough deadlines, but Atomflot is already providing nuclear icebreakers with all of this equipment. 
The Ministry for Civil Defence, Emergencies and Disaster Relief is also working on this. The chain of comprehensive Arctic search and rescue centers will continue to expand. Significantly, our colleagues are set to expand the helicopter fleet. 
It appears that, while implementing all these plans, we will be able to ensure comprehensive search and rescue preparedness along NSR sections. For example, icebreakers will assist ship crews through pack ice formations. The Emergency Ministry’s helicopters, that meet tough Arctic standards, will airlift sick or injured crew members from any ship to a medical clinic on the mainland where they can receive treatment or surgery. 
Question: Are you planning to build additional icebreakers in the Project 22220 series? 
Maxim Kulinko: The Russian Prime Minister instructed us to submit proposals for expanding the icebreaker fleet. We submitted our preliminary estimates to the Government. It turns out that at least two additional Project 22220 icebreakers will be built in addition to the five planned ships in this series; they should enter service in 2030. It would also be helpful to build at least one more Project 10510 Lider-class icebreaker; the lead ship in the series should enter service by 2030. Any shipbuilding decisions need to be adopted before 2023. 
But we have to coordinate all these plans with our partners and key investors, and we have to assess the planned freight traffic volumes. So far, organizational-analytical work is underway, and no final decisions on building extra icebreakers have been made. 
THE NORTHERN SEA ROUTE’S TRANSIT POTENTIAL 
Question: What do you think about the Northern Sea Route’s transit potential? 
Maxim Kulinko: I don’t want to make any forecasts. Again, the analysts all offer different estimates. But I would like to note that transits nearly doubled last year. In 2019, it was about 600,000 to 700,000 metric tons, and it reached almost 1.3 million metric tons in 2020. 
Indeed, our foreign partners are testing the NSR. Of course, they are offering many comments and suggestions on how to improve the infrastructure and navigation safety. Everyone is interested in the Northern Sea Route as a new route to supplement the Suez Canal. This is particularly topical given the latest incident that temporarily shut down the Suez Canal. The development of global trade inevitably requires cargo distribution alternatives. Shipping lanes must provide fast, safe and economically competitive services. 
Question: What can get in the way of these plans? 
Maxim Kulinko: Infrastructure restrictions are the main obstacle. First, we need purpose-built, ice-resistant ships, which cost more than those for the southern seas. We also need substantial icebreaker support because all Atomflot icebreakers are currently involved in various projects. Consignors now use the NSR only from June through November when no icebreakers are needed. In 2020, the first ship sailed on July 29 and the last one on November 10. We need a permanent shipping lane to provide year-round transits. Icebreakers need to ensure unimpeded navigation along the most difficult sections of the NSR, and other ships need to sail on schedule any time of the year. 
Safety matters are second. With Roscosmos, we are now discussing various satellite cluster versions and configurations because remote sensing satellites still don’t provide enough data for the NSR’s eastern section. Today, it is impossible to predict ice movements and routes for escort icebreakers, but we would like to improve the quality of these services. 
Third, we need to analyze emergency rescue preparedness levels. The Federal Agency for Sea and Inland Water Transport needs to deploy the relevant on-duty ships for assisting any ship in distress. 
Fourth, we need to resolve aviation matters. The Emergencies Ministry needs the aviation capability, primarily helicopters, for search and rescue operations. 
Of course, we need to more actively cooperate with key shippers and consignors and explain the specific advantages of using our sometimes severe but shorter route. 
Question: It turns out that we have enough icebreakers to handle 80 million tons. Why can’t we allot them for transit traffic purposes? 
Maxim Kulinko: We need a clear idea of annual freight volumes to allot icebreakers for freight transits. We would need more of them in the event of traffic volume increases. Once again, all unfinished and available icebreakers are intended for specific projects only. We cannot operate an icebreaker on a shipping lane unless we know who will be using it. The economy of this will not allow more flexibility. We have to meticulously evaluate our needs and then workout how to achieve them. 
Question: Many logistics analysts now say that Suez Canal congestion will help expand Northern Sea Route traffic. What do you think? 
Maxim Kulinko: This will not happen in the short-term. NSR transits will expand considerably after we start providing world-class services and infrastructure; this, in turn, will facilitate all-year, safe and rhythmic navigation patterns. Apart from icebreakers, we need ice-resistant freighters and container ships. So it is necessary to build a sufficient number of these ships. And, most importantly, we need enough freight volume with a penchant for the Northern Hemisphere. You see, it is economically inadvisable to deliver goods manufactured, say, in southern China or in the South Asian countries via the Northern Sea Route. It doesn’t matter whether the Suez Canal is clogged or not. Ships that can navigate southern seas alone will bypass Africa. But in the ensuing year NSR routing certainlyoffers new long-term opportunities. 
Question: How successfully can you and foreign companies expand shipping via the Northern Sea Route? 
Maxim Kulinko: We are ready for mutually beneficial cooperation with all countries and foreign companies assuming it is based on equality and respect, and we are working to expand this kind of cooperation. 
Foreign investors are involved in many projects along the Northern Sea Route. Ships belonging to Japanese, Greek and other companies carry goods, including LNG. 
At the same time, German, Danish and Norwegian companies are looking hard at the route, and they helped increase 2020 transiting numbers. 
The Rosatom State Atomic Energy Corporation also has an entire department for expanding the Northern Sea Transit Corridor project that encompasses part of the NSR and which has ports and hubs in the Far East and Murmansk. The goal is to attract international traffic, so our colleagues are working together with our foreign partners. 
The Northern Sea Route’s Public Council includes representatives from key Russian and foreign companies in global logistics, research projects and technologies and those involved in NSR related projects. We are working together to evaluate carriers’ requirements, such as improving NSR infrastructure, services and the investment climate. Some problems have already been eliminated, and I am confident that we will accomplish all of our objectives. 
Population census starts in remote and hard-to-reach Yakut areas 
During the month of April 2021, a population census is taking place in 15 districts of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), including 12 Arctic ones. The works will be carried out in the remote and hard-to-reach areas for the whole month. In the Allaikhovsky, Anabarsky, Bulunsky, Zhigansky, Momsky, Srednekolymsky, Nizhnekolymsky and Ust-Yansky districts the census will record the entire population. 
The census will cover the population of just a few communities in the Abyisky, Amginsky, Verkhnevilyuisky, Verkhekolymsky, Gorny, Eveno-Bytantaisky and Olenyoksky districts. The population of district centers will be registered in the fall. 
The April census is dealing with 46,000 people. Census-takers are going around door to door with the usual printed out questionnaires,” the press service of the Republic’s Government noted. 
According to the 2010 nationwide population census, the Russian Arctic’s population dwindled by 8.3 percent, the press service added. 
The nationwide population census will provide updates on the changing Arctic population, local residents’ living conditions, sources of income, quality of education, ethnic affiliation, the size of the population and economic activities. By answering a whole lot of questions, it will help adopt new decisions and draft programs for supporting and developing the Arctic territories,” the press release said. 
The main part of the population census is expected to be carried out from August 23 to September 30, 2021. 
MiG-31BM fighters get up-to-date Arctic navigational equipment 
Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-31BM Foxhound fighters-interceptors have been equipped with state-of-the-art navigation systems in order that Arctic missions can be carried out as best as possible. 
Each MiG-31BM fighter is fitted out with a new satellite navigation system and can operate in any part of the world, including the Arctic region,” the press service of the United Aircraft Corporation, affiliated with Rostec State Corporation, noted. 
However, the satellite navigation system functions differently in the Arctic, corporate sources added. It remains clumsy and inaccurate there because spacecraft never fly overhead in the northern latitudes. The second thing is that the Arctic region’s highly active ionosphere creates many problems for electronic devices. This can cause synchronization and coordinate calculation errors. 
Previously, the Russian Defense Ministry reported that MiG-31BM aircraft were flying regular training missions over the Russian Arctic. In January 2021, the crews of the Northern Fleet’s MiG-31BM long-range fighters-interceptors deployed for experimental combat duty in the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago. 
Maria Zakharova: Russia’s activity in the Arctic does not threaten other countries 
Russia’s activity in the Arctic complies with international law and does not contradict it; tensions in the region are mounting due to US actions, said Russian Foreign Ministry Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova. 
Russia does not do anything in the Arctic that runs counter to international law or poses a threat to other countries. As for potential sources of tensions in the region, it would be logical to consider the military activity of the US and its allies in the Arctic, as well as the belligerent rhetoric,” Zakharova said at a briefing. 
In particular, she commented on the statements by Western media that Russia is building up military bases and resources north of the Arctic Circle in order to impose Russian rules on the Northern Sea Route and force its own power on the region. 
It is NATO and its member states, including non-Arctic countries, that engage in provocations with increasing regularity,” Zakharova said, adding that several such operations have been recently held in the waters of the Arctic Ocean bordering Russian territory. 
She emphasized that this aspiration to militarize the Arctic and use the region to implement the notorious policy aimed at containing Russia causes legitimate concern. 
Russian natural resources agency to conduct unscheduled inspections of Arctic facilities in 2021 
This year, the Federal Service for Natural Resources (Rosprirodnadzor) will conduct unscheduled inspections of industrial facilities in the Arctic zone to detect any environmental damage associated with the spill of oil and oil products. 
As instructed by Deputy Prime Minister Viktoria Abramchenko, we will conduct unscheduled inspections of facilities located in the Russian Arctic whose activities pose environmental risks due to the spill of oil and oil products and the release of other pollutants,” said Rosprirodnadzor Head Svetlana Radionova. 
The inspections will be carried out at the facilities of 14 enterprises, seven of which are involved in the production and processing of hydrocarbons. 
Also this year, the agency may conduct environmental inspections at 32 facilities located in three Russian regions and operated by Lukoil subsidiaries Ritek and Lukoil-Kaliningradmorneft. 
US Secretary of State: Russia uses climate change to control the Arctic 
Speaking in Annapolis, Maryland, US Secretary of State Antony J. Blinken said that climate change can create new theaters of conflict.” In particular, he noted that, due to the Arctic warming, the Northern Sea Route is becoming navigable for a longer period of time in a year. 
Russia is exploiting this change to try to exert control over new spaces. It is modernizing its bases in the Arctic and building new ones, including one just 300 miles from Alaska,” the Secretary of State said and added that China is also increasing its presence in the Arctic.” 
Climate change is a priority issue for the North Atlantic Alliance as well, according to the leader of US diplomacy. 
At NATO, for example, there is consensus that we need to adapt our military readiness for the inevitability of climate change and reduce the reliance of the Allies’ forces on fossil fuels, which is both a vulnerability and a major source of pollution,” he stressed. 
Notably, back in March 2021, Nikolai Korchunov, Russian Ambassador-at-Large and Russia’s Senior Arctic Official to the Arctic Council, announced that Russia had taken all necessary action to ensure security in the Arctic in view of NATO’s growing interest in the region. Korchunov said that the current developments validated the decisions made earlier with respect to preserving the Arctic as a territory of peace, low tension, sustainable development and cooperation. 
Discoveries about unknown heroes of the North at Moscow’s Central Cinema House 
On May 22, the program at the Central Cinema House in Moscow will be devoted to documentaries from the archives. The event is being presented by the Russian State Film and Photo Archives as part of the project, Unknown Heroes of the North. Films about Georgy Sedov’s 1913 expedition, the film Heroic Deed Among the Ice about the rescue operation of Umberto Nobile's expedition in 1928 and many other films will be available to view on that day on a large screen. 
The Unknown Heroes of the North series that is supported by the Presidential Grants Foundation incudes stories of people that devoted their whole lives to the development of the Arctic and the Northern Sea Route. 
Those people we want to speak about were over-shadowed by their well-known colleagues, such as Andrei Vilkitsky, Georgy Sedov, Otto Shmidt, Ivan Papanin, Vladimir Wiese and others. However, the contribution of those polar explorers to the development of the Russian North was no less significant. Our project of staging multimedia exhibitions and making documentaries is intended to restore the historical memory of those heroes of northern odysseys,” said those responsible for the project. 
Also on that same day the films will be shown in other Russian cities, such as St. Petersburg, Arkhangelsk, Sevastopol, Simferopol, Murmansk, Naryan-Mar, Salekhard, Krasnoyarsk, Yekaterinburg, Omsk, Kazan, Chelyabinsk, the cities members of the Union of Polar Region Cities, and on Spitzbergen. Currently, the project covers over 40 cities. The program will be presented abroad at the Russian Houses under the Federal Agency for the Commonwealth of Independent States Affairs, Compatriots Living Abroad, and International Humanitarian Cooperation. 
So we will hold an international event dedicated not only to polar explorers, but also to Russian film makers who filmed these documentaries,” noted the organizers. 
Russia to start laying underwater fiber-optic cable line across Arctic this summer 
There are plans to start laying a deep-water trans-Arctic fiber-optic cable line between Murmansk and Vladivostok via the Northern Sea Route in late May or early June. 
This is a key project for computerization of the Northern Sea Route (NSR) and the Arctic region. We are now discussing the possibility of launching the Greater Northern Sea Route that may link St. Petersburg with Vladivostok,” said Russian Deputy Minister of Transport Alexander Poshivai. 
According to Poshivai, the 12,650 km Polar Express communications line operating at 100 Tb/s will be laid via the shortest route between Europe and Asia. The project is scheduled for completion in 2026. 
This communications line will provide the Arctic port infrastructure with reliable high-speed communications and data exchange channels via the NSR and in the Far Eastern Federal District. It will therefore facilitate the digital transformation of water transport,” Poshivai pointed out. 
Nine ships will be laying the fiber-optic cable line, capable of withstanding temperatures of −50ºC to +50 ºC, at the depth of 1.5 meters. The line will have a total of 150 optical relay systems. 
Alexander Smirnov, CEO of Rosmorport, a Russian state port operator, noted that 18 Arctic ports had handled 996 million tons of freight last year; an additional 223 million tons were delivered via 22 Far Eastern ports. Up until 2030, freight deliveries via Arctic ports are expected to expand by 44 million tons every year and by over 100 million tons via Far Eastern ports. We need a permanent and reliable communications channel to operate these facilities,” he said adding that satellite communications networks cannot guarantee this. 
Andrei Kuropyatnikov, General Director of Morsvyazsputnik, a satellite communications company supervised by the Federal Agency for Sea and Inland Water Transport, noted that it was possible to get some foreign partners on board to work on the communications linking Teriberka with Europe and Vladivostok with Asia. The Polar Express project had secured the required funding, he added. 
Russian Prime Minister approves support program for Arctic indigenous peoples 
Russian Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has approved a government program to support traditional economic activity of small indigenous ethnic groups in the Arctic. Support will come in the form of wider internet access and promotion of local trades and their products on the Russian and international markets. 
This program aims to contribute to the indigenous groups’ welfare, reduce unemployment, increase the amount of traditional products and improve the appeal of the Arctic as a tourist destination,” the press service of the cabinet of ministers reported. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic is expected to deliver a step-by-step plan of action within the next three months. 
The program is divided into six main areas of focus, the first being infrastructure upgrade. More specifically, it includes providing small indigenous groups with reliable mobile communications and internet access, supporting the development of their arts and crafts, as well as subsidizing meat and fish processing equipment. 
Another area where support is necessary is promoting products of traditional economic activity on the Russian and international markets. Small indigenous groups will get assistance with marketing and trade fairs. Certification, licensing and logistics training will be provided. The government plans to partially compensate export costs,” the cabinet of ministers added. 
A center for traditional entrepreneurship will be established to consult people on starting a business, support investment projects, discover and support initiatives with potential. 
The program will also include measures to develop tourism in the areas where small indigenous communities live. Among other measures, subsidies will be provided to cover the costs of new facilities and improve the quality of services. 
The program approved by the government also covers improvements in education. A federal education standard will be developed for specialists in northern economic activity. Students from indigenous groups who study traditional economies will receive additional scholarships. 
Other measures include monitoring the quality of teaching the native languages of the small indigenous groups, improving teacher training and attracting young professionals to traditional economic activities through housing subsidies. 
First meeting of Council to Develop Far East, Arctic and Antarctic 
Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov attended the first meeting of the Council to Develop the Far East, Arctic and Antarctic, established at the Federation Council of the Russian Federation’s Federal Assembly. 
Chekunkov informed the members of the Council on the measures being taken to support macro-regions, the results of the efforts to expedite the development of the Far East and the Arctic, as well as new initiatives aiming to improve the quality of life in the Far East and the Arctic. He set forth the Ministry’s high-priority tasks, including the development of the social sphere, expanded infrastructure and housing construction, providing more accessible transport and support for small and medium-sized businesses. 
The Ministry and the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic are also reviewing several dozen new draft social initiatives to boost people’s quality of life in the Russian Far East and Arctic. This includes proposals to resolve migration problems, to improve the standard of education, to expand campuses, to reduce tuition fees and to subsidize higher education institutions. He also mentioned HR support and healthcare projects. We are working on these initiatives, and we are interested in an all-out public discussion and a search for new tools,” Chekunkov said. 
The agenda of our work will include the development of healthcare, education, employment, the population’s social protection, environmental protection and the development of small and medium-sized businesses,” the Federation Council’s Deputy Speaker and the Council’s Chair Galina Karelova noted. 
Those present at the meeting discussed the implementation of the state policy and strategic long-term planning in the Far East and the Arctic, efforts to streamline legislation, measures to expand the transport and logistic infrastructure, to create favorable conditions for improving the quality of life in the Far East and the Arctic, as well as new opportunities for international cooperation and for advancing the Arctic agenda during Russia’s upcoming chairmanship of the Arctic Council. 
The attendees also decided to establish two working groups. Alexander Akimov, the former Head of the Federation Council’s Arctic and Antarctic Council, chairs the first group. And Anatoly Shirokov, the former Head of the Council for the Development of the Far East and the Baikal Region, is in charge of the second group. 
Industrial facilities in the Arctic fined 17.5 million rubles 
The Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources identified approximately 1,786 violations during its inspections of enterprises in the Arctic area over five months. The fines imposed on 95 facilities totaled over 17.5 million rubles. 
We discovered 1,786 violations during five months and initiated over 400 administrative cases. The Arctic environment is very vulnerable, something that is clear to everybody. Nevertheless, some companies have no design documentation, others dump drilling waste in city suburbs, and still others don’t repair their equipment within a reasonable time even though the Norilsk disaster is fresh in everyone’s memory. <...> At this point, 95 facilities have been fined over 17.5 million rubles,” said Head of the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources Svetlana Radionova, as reported by the agency’s press service. Radionova is chief state ecological inspector of the Russian Federation. 
According to her, inspections in the Arctic area are not over yet; 95 more companies are scheduled for inspection. 
Program of Russian-Indian cooperation in the Far Eastern Federal District and the Arctic to be approved at EEF 
The program of Russian-Indian cooperation in the trade, economic and investment spheres in the Far East until 2025 and the principles of cooperation in the Arctic will be adopted at the Eastern Economic Forum (EEF). 
Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov held a working meeting with Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary of India Venkatesh Varma. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic and the National Institution for Transforming India (NITI Aayog), together with the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation, are formulating a program of Russian-Indian cooperation in trade, economic and investment spheres in the Russian Far East for 2021–2025 and the principles of cooperation in the Russian Arctic. This strategic document is expected to be approved at the EEF,” the press service of the ministry reported. 
As the ministry points out, in 2020, the Far Eastern Federal District’s foreign trade with India increased by over 5 percent and exceeded $764 million. 
The regions of the Russian Arctic have increased foreign trade with Indian partners by 12.6 percent, up to $800 million,” the report says. 
In turn, Venkatesh Varma noted the prospects for expanding cooperation in education. According to the ambassador, the student flow could be increased to 25,000 people, provided that educational programs are introduced in the Far East in subjects that are in demand among young people, such as IT, international law and other areas,” the press service said. 
Roscosmos head reveals unique footage made by Russian Arktika-M satellite 
Roscosmos Director General Dmitry Rogozin revealed unique footage made by the Russian satellite Arktika-M. One of the photos shows the birth of vortices and the weather over the Northern Hemisphere.” 
According to Rogozin, the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring began using this information to design weather forecasting models. 
Images of global atmospheric processes over the Arctic region open up new opportunities for tackling weather forecast challenges,” Rogozin wrote in his Telegram channel. 
He stressed that Russia became the first country to begin receiving images of dynamic processes in this area of the globe with such regularity. He added that this information will serve as the basis for the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring to design models of weather forecasts. 
You can see the birth of vortices and weather over the Northern Hemisphere in this satellite image,” he wrote. 
Rogozin pointed out that Arktika-M is a one-of-a-kind tool for monitoring major wildfires. 
Just one space probe allows us to receive images every 15 minutes for several hours to monitor the intensity and the direction in which the wildfire is spreading,” Roscosmos head explained. 
Russian government will support international Arctic expedition 
Vladimir Putin has instructed the Government and several other agencies to support the international research exhibition to be held in the Arctic zone of Russia and in the Arctic Council states. 
The Government of the Russian Federation, together with the Foreign Ministry, the Federal Security Service (FSB) and other relevant federal bodies of executive authority are to consider the proposals of the Russian Geographical Society (RGO), including those that concern providing support to an international research exhibition to be held in the Arctic zone of Russia and in the territory of Arctic Council states, and to adopt relevant decisions following this,” the instructions approved by the President following a meeting of the RGO Board of Trustees stipulate. 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin, Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov and FSB Director Alexander Bortnikov are to report on these decisions before June 1, 2021. 
Vladimir Putin also recommended that the State Duma, together with the Government, approve amendments to the Russian legislation on the state protection of underwater objects of cultural heritage. They are to report on their relevant activities before December 1, 2021. 
Second stage of polar bear aerial survey expedition starts in Yakutia 
The aerial survey of polar bears and sea mammals in the Russian Arctic is getting underway in Yakutia. Expedition members will collect information on the polar bear population and its distribution on the local islands and coastline under the Master of the Arctic environmental project. 
During this expedition, we will be able to understand what is happening with the population, how our bears move, what is happening with the ice conditions and what the general environmental agenda should look like. This will help us legally regulate human relations with the Arctic fauna,” said Rustam Romanenkov, deputy director-general of the Arctic Initiatives Center. 
The organizers of the expedition explained that the research would be divided into two parts. During the first part, experts will explore understudied areas of the Laptev Sea and the East Siberian Sea. The Tiksi airfield will be the point of departure for 10 aerial routes, each at least 1,000 km long. All aerial surveys will be conducted from an L-410 flying laboratory. 
During the second part, researchers plan to study the movements of polar bears on the Franz Josef Land archipelago using tracking collars. The Mikhail Somov research vessel will leave for the archipelago in June 2021. 
This vessel is a helicopter carrier, so we will be able to study the territories and waters of Franz Josef Land without additional long flights,” said ecologist Ilya Mordvintsev, an expert on climate and ice conditions from the Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution at the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
He added that during the expedition, the researchers were instructed to look at the distribution of polar bears on the islands and straits of Franz Josef Land, to catch them and put collars on them. 
In the future, this will allow us to track when polar bears leave the islands or whether some of them have to stay. In general, we will be able to monitor the movements of different families, to see how female bears walk with their cubs, whether they walk on ice, and how they hunt with them,” he said. 
The first part of the expedition ended last September. Its participants flew over 10,000 km on the previously charted sea and coastal routes: the coast of the northern part of the Yamal Peninsula, the eastern coast of the Gyda Peninsula, the islands of Novaya Zemlya, Bely, Vaigach, Dolgy, Matveyev, Shokalsky and Bolshoi and Maly Zelenets, over the water surface of the Pechora Sea, as well as the Ob, Baidaratskaya and Khaipudyrskaya estuaries. The research was initiated by Rosprirodnadzor (Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources) in cooperation with the Clean Seas International Environmental Foundation. 
Nikolai Korchunov: It is important to have constructive cooperation in the Arctic Council 
The Russian Government has to take into account the growth of potential Arctic threats in its military planning, said Nikolai Korchunov, Ambassador-at-Large for Arctic Cooperation at the Russian Foreign Ministry and the Senior Arctic Official of the Russian Federation at the Arctic Council. 
We can see such signs of growing military and political tensions in the region and increased activity of NATO forces, primarily from non-Arctic countries. It puts us on alert. Naturally, we are forced to take this into account in our military planning in the Arctic area,” said Nikolai Korchunov during a roundtable discussion organized by Rossiya Segodnya. 
He also pointed out that Moscow stands for more active military contacts between the Arctic countries to reduce potential risks. 
The risk of an arms race should not be underestimated. It is important here to expand constructive cooperation in the Arctic Council to the military-political sphere as well. Russia is prepared for the relevant multilateral contacts on military affairs, which would be aimed at reducing tensions and preventing conflicts, misunderstandings and an incorrect evaluation of military capabilities,” noted Nikolai Korchunov. 
The ambassador added that regretfully not all Arctic partners share this point of view. In his opinion, there are two possible scenarios. 
Either de-escalation – readiness for a dialogue and rejection of accusatory rhetoric – or a road to escalation, when countries show no readiness for a multilateral dialogue and when countries use accusatory rhetoric, fanning up information confrontation,” said Nikolai Korchunov. 
He stressed the constructive nature of the dialogue with the United States within the Arctic Council. 
I want to underscore the very constructive relations with our US colleagues at the Arctic Council. And, above all, I want to point out the working relations that I have with Meredith Rubin, Senior Arctic Official of the United States,” stated the ambassador. 
To his mind, Russia and the United States have a good understanding of the problems that the Arctic region is facing. Both parties are also interested in cooperation on climate change issues in the region. 
We will interact hand in glove with our American colleagues on all such problems, including permafrost retreat, gas hydrates issues and other matters related to climate change,” he said. 
According to Nikolai Korchunov, the new US administration’s policy of advancing the climate agenda is favorably reflected in the interaction at the Arctic Council. 
The United States returned to the Paris Climate Agreement, joined by all other Arctic Council countries, which facilitated the rapprochement of their positions on climate issues. And the climate changes occurring in the Arctic are very important for Russia in terms of the consequences and risks that they entail,” emphasized the diplomat. 
Foreign ministers from Arctic Council countries to discuss regional development 
On May 19-20, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will discuss plans for the Arctic’s sustainable development at the 12th Arctic Council Ministerial Meeting being held in Iceland. 
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov will make a working visit to Iceland, which will be the venue of a meeting of foreign ministers of the Arctic Council’s member states. The ministers will discuss the strengthening of cooperation and the coordination of efforts for the region’s stable development,” the Russian Foreign Ministry’s Spokeswoman Maria Zakharova noted. 
The participants are expected to sign a declaration reaffirming the Arctic countries’ commitment to peace, stability and constructive cooperation across the high latitudes and outlining the main spheres of further efforts to promote international interaction,” she said. 
Particular attention is to be given to environmental protection,” she added. 
The first-ever strategic plan of the Arctic Council for the next 10 years is to be presented at the event, Zakharova noted. Following the gathering, Russia will chair the organization, due to mark its 25th anniversary later in 2021, for a period of two years. 
Lavrov to talk about Norway’s attempts to involve NATO in the Arctic at Reykjavik 
The Russian side will raise the issue of Norway’s attempts to involve NATO in the Arctic region at the upcoming ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Reykjavik. 
We have questions for our neighbors, such as Norway which is trying hard to find reasons for NATO’s movement to the Arctic. Of course, we will openly discuss this at the ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in Reykjavik,” Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov noted at a news conference on the upcoming event. 
The minister spoke in favor of renewing the dialogue between chiefs of staff of the eight member countries of the Arctic Council. 
If anyone wants more predictability as well as lower risks of a military plan, then I suggest going back to an old proposal of ours: to restore the mechanism of regular meetings between chiefs of staff of the Arctic Council member countries,” the minister said. 
According to Lavrov, this mechanism was operational, but about seven years ago Western colleagues decided to suspend it. 
If you decided to suspend it, then do not complain that we have no dialogue. We did not stop the dialogue,” Lavrov stressed. 
Yes, we can see complaints that Russia is deploying military mechanisms in the Arctic. But it has long been well known that this is our territory, our land. We are responsible for making our Arctic coast safe, and everything Russia does there is completely legitimate,” the Foreign Minister said. 
Lavrov added that Russia had renewed its proposal to restore this mechanism. As a first stage, the Foreign Minister suggested holding a meeting between the eight Arctic Council member states’ military experts instead of chiefs of staff. 
State Duma committee approves expansion of Far Eastern Hectare program to Arctic region 
State Duma Committee on Natural Resources, Property and Land Relations approved the first version of a bill on expanding the Far Eastern Hectare program to the Russian Arctic region. State Duma deputies are to examine the document on May 25. 
Submitted by the Government to the lower house of parliament, the bill aims to simplify the procedure for allotting private land plots in the Arctic region, as well as other Northern, Siberian and Far Eastern territories, to use idle lands for economic purposes and to motivate people to develop land plots being provided under the Far Eastern Hectare program. 
Earlier, Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin explained that additional Arctic territories would be included in the above-mentioned program. People can obtain land plots more quickly under simplified procedures. The authorities will prioritize efforts to preserve the traditions of small Northern, Siberian and Far Eastern indigenous ethnic groups and their culture, Mishustin noted. 
People developing, leasing or owning land plots under the Far Eastern Hectare program can obtain one additional hectare of land. These measures will make it possible to make more active use of idle lands in the Far Eastern Federal District and the Russian Arctic, Mishustin said. Most importantly, these land plots will motivate people to launch their own businesses and to build housing for their families. They will boost people’s incomes and will make their lives more comfortable, he added. 
Konstantin Zaykov: Arctic regions can achieve more building with close integration 
Konstantin Zaykov, Professor of the Department of Regional Studies, International Relations and Political Science at Lomonosov Northern Arctic Federal University (NARFU), talked to Arctic.ru correspondent Kristina Khramtsova about how the Arkhangelsk Region is benefitting from participation in the state program for the development of the Arctic, what obstacles stand in the way of implementation and how they can be overcome. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Last year, the Guidelines for the State Policy of the Russian Federation in the Arctic to 2035 and the corresponding Strategy for the Socioeconomic Development of the Russian Arctic were adopted. Has the approach to territorial planning changed compared with similar documents adopted during the previous period? 
Konstantin Zaykov: We all know the famous Russian saying by Leo Tolstoy which roughly translates as the map is not the territory.” The development of the Russian Arctic’s public administration system is the most important achievement of 2019 and 2020. 
The previous decade was beset with several back-to-back economic crises, which led to slashing Russian Arctic socioeconomic development program budgets, which, in turn, stalled the plans that were set in the 2013 Strategy and the 2008 Guidelines. On top of that, the process for developing the Russian Arctic’s governance system took 10 long years. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East, the Corporation for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the restructuring of the State Commission for the Development of the Russian Arctic - all of that was finished in 2019–2020, which, in general, led to forming an integrated governance system for the Russian Arctic. This is what the Russian Arctic has sorely been missing in previous decades. 
I remember clearly the conferences and expert panels held in 2014–2016 where the representatives of the Association of Polar Explorers and Artur Chilingarov spoke. It was often emphasized that the Russian Arctic had no owner.” Fortunately, the owner” has shown up over the past two years, which made it possible to put together a new set of documents within a short period of time. 
In the previous period, regulatory paradoxes were the problem. The guidelines for the state policy were adopted in 2008, the Strategy was adopted in 2013, and the governance entity (Presidential Executive Order No. 296 On Land-Locked Territories of the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation, which they focused on, was adopted in 2014. The Program for the Socioeconomic Development of the Russian Arctic was adopted that same year. In other words, the process of putting together this package of documents took an inordinate amount of time during the previous period. 
In addition, these documents were put together largely as a nod to the fleeting concerns of that time - the oil Eldorado” can be clearly traced in the documents from the first decade. But over time, with the next crisis underway and oil prices plummeting, the optimistic outlook faded. 
This time, we managed to avoid this due to the fact that the entire set of documents was adopted within a very short amount of time. Both the State Policy Guidelines and the Strategy were adopted in 2020. This year saw the Program for Social and Economic Development and the plan for implementing it come to fruition. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Do you think these documents have been worked through thoroughly enough? 
Konstantin Zaykov: The current Government Policy Guidelines and Strategy represent a major effort to rethink strengths and weaknesses. The documents cover the work done in the previous decade and outline key strengths and weaknesses. 
The priorities are clearly defined. The focus is not only on producing hydrocarbons, which was covered in the strategic documents of the first decade, but also on developing the Northern Sea Route. Much is being said about socioeconomic development. In addition, the documents highlight science and innovation, which in fact, cut across the priorities and goals formulated in the Strategy to 2035. 
The Strategy Implementation Plan is also quite clear and covers the jurisdictions of each ministry and department. Our top priority is to properly coordinate the actions of the departments and constituent entities of the Russian Arctic. The lack of coordination between them is a major problem which underlies the failure to fulfill the goals of the previous program. That is, the problem then extended beyond the budget. 
In addition, the funding mechanism must function properly, because to a large extent, the success of any particular initiative depends on the budgetary resources available for the Socioeconomic Development Program. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Do federal documents fully reflect the things that are important for the Arkhangelsk Region? 
Konstantin Zaykov: I think so. One distinction of the new strategy is that it has a clear regional focus – something the previous strategy didn’t have. When the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic and the Agency for the Development of Human Capital in the Far East and Arctic were drafting the new package of documents, they included the priority projects of every region, while meeting the goals at the federal level. In a package, this approach produces a multiplicative effect. 
Russia’s Arctic regions, including the Arkhangelsk Region and us (representatives of Northern Arctic Federal University as experts, took part in assigning tasks to each Arctic region as part of implementing the national goals. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What are the social problems of Arkhangelsk Region residents? How can they be overcome? 
Konstantin Zaykov: There are plenty of social problems. 
To begin with, there is the outflow of the population. Young people are leaving the Arkhangelsk Region for southern places that are more comfortable. At the same time, the population is ageing because those who stay are mostly the older generation. 
To resolve this problem, it is necessary, first, to create a quality urban environment and drastically upgrade the infrastructure. Unfortunately, the image of the cities in the Arkhangelsk Region is below the expectations of young people. It doesn’t match their idea of the kind of place they want. 
Second, it is essential to create an open and accessible labor market, a kind of Arctic marketplace that can help young people find jobs in other regions in the Russian Arctic. 
Often, young people do not know about vacancies in neighboring regions because there is no open access to this information. Now, they all send their CVs to Lukoil or Nornickel but they have no idea whether these companies need specialists. 
If a transparent and open labor exchange is established, our graduates will be able to get jobs in a neighboring region, for instance, on a rotation basis and then return home. In this scenario, many would take jobs in their region rather than leave for the south. 
What matters is not even studying Arctic-related competences by our graduates; the main point is that the physical health of local residents is better adapted to living in the north. Often people who come to work in the north have to undergo a long period of adaptation. They receive good pay here, but sometimes they return home with illnesses. 
Another way to keep youth here is to develop the scientific and education sector. Practice shows that the more specialized secondary schools and universities our cities have the higher the chances that young people will stay. 
This happens because those who go to another region with a comfortable and accessible urban environment, a powerful university campus or a system of specialized secondary schools, simply prefer to stay and work there after graduating. And I’m not just referring to St. Petersburg or Moscow; young people from the Arkhangelsk Region often go to the Yaroslavl Region, for example. 
According to statistics, up to 89 percent of all NARFU or Northern State Medical University (NSMU) graduates remain to work in the region – they live in the Arkhangelsk Region or work in neighboring Arctic regions. So, it is necessary not only to develop the urban environment but also to support the universities. It is important to turn Arkhangelsk into a truly large university city to attract our intellectual capital, our young people. In working here, they will promote the city’s development. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What are the shortcomings of the current system of guarantees and support for the people in the Russian Arctic? How can we improve it? 
Konstantin Zaykov: First, northern incentive pay is only nominal. In Soviet times, the incentive system encouraged people to go and work in the North because northern salaries were very different from the average in the central part of the country. But this is no longer the case. Thus, remuneration is no longer competitive unless you work in the high added value sector. This is a big negative in the North. 
The problem of northern salary incentives and compensation is a serious one throughout the Russian Arctic. Analysts have long talked about this, but the solution is expensive financially. Who would pay an incentive compensation – private companies or the state? If it’s a private company, its products will cost more and it will eventually become uncompetitive. 
We are seeing that our northern neighbors that compel private business to do this are starting to lose their market positions in the world. I‘m referring to Swedish and Norwegian companies that are losing tenders to companies that can produce goods less expensively – similar products from South Korea or China because the workforce is less expensive there. 
Indirect compensation is another matter. Higher pay is one approach, but another approach might include an interest-free loan for education for the young people who live in the North. This could potentially encourage them to stay in the region. These models work in the Scandinavian countries. Or, young people could receive low-interest mortgage loans that are particularly important for young families and that would encourage them choose to stay in the region. 
It is very important to develop support systems for the young specialists that work in critical areas but without high incomes. I am referring not to oil workers, miners or seamen but to teachers, doctors, scientists and hydro-meteorologists. They are very important, but their basic pay is too low. Therefore, it is necessary to offer additional benefits or preferences to encourage young people to keep their jobs as doctors and teachers or to work at northern hydro-meteorological stations. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What will be done to overcome the economic problems in the Arkhangelsk Region? 
Konstantin Zaykov: I believe it is necessary to introduce a compensation system that can create attractive conditions for doing business, primarily by small or medium companies. In this context, it is vital to create initiatives for Arctic residents, which will give them tax benefits. This is very important for the development of tourism, the agro-industrial complex and for fisheries. 
This matters because taxes and other costs, especially electricity rates, make costs so high that the Arkhangelsk Region is probably one of the most depressed places in the country. The business activity index has been declining here for the past decade. This is why it is important to take measures that will provide tax benefits if not reduce costs. 
Kristina Khramtsova: How effective is the interaction between the Arctic regions? What part does the Arkhangelsk Region play in it? 
Konstantin Zaykov: The Arkhangelsk Region-based companies operate as subcontractors with the Yamal projects and the ones implemented by Norilsk Nickel, including Novatek’s Center for the Construction of Large-Capacity Marine Facilities in the Murmansk Region. 
Politically, in the interregional space, the Arkhangelsk Region and the Murmansk Region have, for a very long time now, competed for resources from the federal center, which was widely covered by the media. The political landscape has undergone major changes in both regions, though, and the federal center has largely facilitated this process, namely, by appointing new governors to these regions, who interacted quite effectively back when they worked in the Government. 
The research and educational center Russian Arctic: Innovative Materials, Technology and Research Methods, which received support last year as a major interregional project is a good example of consensus in interregional cooperation. The new governor of the Arkhangelsk Region and the new leaders in the Murmansk Region and the Nenets Autonomous Area were largely instrumental in reaching an agreement on the implementation of this project, which helped the Western Arctic get ahead in an important competition with other Russian Arctic regions. 
We won not only because of our robust scientific capacity, but also because, for the first time in ten years, the regions managed to reach a political agreement which is crucial. 
So, many more opportunities are now available at the political level when there’s a need to come to an agreement or to reach a consensus when discussing all kinds of initiatives. This inspires optimism, because many projects can only be implemented when there’s close interregional integration. 
Recent initiatives demonstrate that we are not moving in opposite directions, but toward each other. Again, in many regards, the desire to control competition led to including chapters about regional development in the Russian Arctic Strategy at the federal level. This was done in order to avoid the regions prioritizing their own interests, so that each one has its own area of ​​responsibility and to remove the high level of competition and mutual mistrust. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What direction is the Arkhangelsk Region’s international cooperation going in? Are there any difficulties? 
Konstantin Zaykov: Attracting investors has never stopped being a priority. Unfortunately, the geopolitical situation has in many respects seriously affected the intensity of international contacts. But the Arkhangelsk Region has always been strongly engaged in the activities of the chambers of commerce and industry as well as individual regional institutions. The region is working hard to expand its international cooperation when it comes to implementing various projects, such as those in the field of education and culture, or technology and innovation. 
Unfortunately, for obvious reasons, the cooperation has been significantly going down since 2014. Recently, we saw our partners restore their activities at the level of chambers of commerce and industry, which, in many ways, are integral institutions that bring onboard various stakeholders to discuss project initiatives. 
This work resumed only after an almost three-year-long pause when, in the fall of 2018 and throughout 2019, a series of largescale meetings with investors from Finland and Norway took place. The interaction covers marine biological resources, green energy projects, waste disposal technology, the forestry industry and the processing of non-conventional lumber products – I’m referring here to the cultivation of wild vegetation and processing needle foliage to produce feed for fish and cattle fodder. There are many interesting projects. 
Unfortunately, due to COVID-19, 2020 was quite uneventful for us. We are expecting a delegation from Norway and Finland to visit us this fall in order to resume these initiatives. It is hard to negotiate without personal contacts, and virtual contacts do not always help, because business often requires in-person contacts. 
I already said that project activities were put on hold from 2014 to 2018 due to the geopolitical situation, but now we are seeing our foreign partners show renewed interest in these projects. 
Speaking of high-tech industrial projects, we are seeing our partners reorienting their focus and showing renewed interest in them, but the pandemic has, of course, come at a cost to us. The Arkhangelsk Region is looking for new partners. Cultural exchanges and the scientific and educational projects are going strong despite the sanctions and COVID-19. 
The Kolarctic program is a good example of cross-border cooperation between the European Union and Russia in the Barents Sea Region (northern Finland, Sweden, Norway and northwest Russia). This is the largest available program seeking to introduce best practices and technologies in the Arctic regions. Thanks to the Northern (Arctic) Federal University’s energetic activities, the Arkhangelsk Region is leading in the number of projects that it has won. So in other words, we are strongly involved in innovation-driven research and educational activities. 
2021-2013: Russia to chair Arctic Council 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visited Reykjavik and attended a meeting marking the 25th anniversary of the Arctic Council. He urged other countries not to bring confrontation into the work of the organization. 
According to Lavrov, states responsible for the future of the polar region can skillfully manage it only through concerted efforts. Russia, he pointed out, advocates expanded dialogue. 
The Arctic Council is a unique forum where the member states are not divided into us and them”; decisions are adopted by consensus, and the interests of the indigenous people of the North, who sit at the same table with representatives of the member states, are taken into account,” Sergei Lavrov said. 
He recalled that Russia would assume the chairmanship of the Arctic Council this year. In this connection, Russia which accounts for one-third of the Arctic region, plans to continue the development of the region’s social, economic and nature conservation. According to the diplomat, efforts to improve people’s well-being and the quality of their lives are the main goal of work in this direction. 
Those attending the Reykjavik meeting also approved a regional development strategy for a period of the next ten years. Lavrov explained that it was intended to prepare the polar region for all-out climate change to the greatest possible extent, and to minimize human impact on the environment. Some state projects will aim to preserve the cultural, historical and linguistic heritage of Northern ethnic groups. 
This is the first long-term planning document for the Arctic Eight, namely, Russia, Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Canada, the United States and Iceland. 
There were plans to approve the strategy in 2019, during Finland’s chairmanship, but the US position prevented this from happening. 
Lavrov: There is no potential for conflict in the Arctic 
Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov attended events at the 12th Ministerial Meeting of the Arctic Council in Reykjavik, Iceland. 
He said, during his remarks, that in its Arctic policy Russia continued to proceed from the assumption that there is no potential for conflict in the Arctic. He also stressed the need for the continuity of the council’s general Arctic agenda and a responsible management of the region’s development. 
Meeting participants approved a declaration, whereby the Arctic states reaffirmed their commitment to peace, stability and constructive cooperation in high latitudes, as well as outlined the main pathways to the further advancement of international interaction in the interests of promoting sustainable development of the Arctic region. 
Special attention was paid to environmental activities, the region’s greater adaptability and resistance to the consequences of climate change, and the implementation of the planned projects. An intention was indicated to further strengthen the Arctic Council, including the interaction of its auxiliary bodies on related issues,” a Russian Foreign Ministry report says. 
It is also reported that the Arctic Council has adopted a 10-year plan, the first such one in its 25-year history. 
Russia has taken over the Arctic Council’s Chairmanship for 2021-2023. Russian Foreign Ministry’s Ambassador at Large Nikolay Korchunov has been appointed Chairman of the Senior Officials Committee. 
In his turn, Minister for Foreign Affairs and International Development Cooperation of Iceland Gudlaugur Thor Thordarson wished Russia success in performing its duties as Arctic Council Chairman. Foreign Minister Thordarson said via Twitter: A successful Ministerial meeting has been held today, which marks the end of Iceland’s successful Arctic Council Chairmanship. I am proud of our achievements at this unprecedented time and I wish Russia every success during its chairmanship. 
The Arctic Council Chairmanship has been handed over to Russia for two years. A relevant ceremony was held as part of the Arctic Eight” Ministerial Meeting in Reykjavik. 
Lev Voronkov: More profound cooperation between Arctic Council countries possible despite sanctions 
In 2021-2023, the rotating chairmanship of the Arctic Council goes to Russia. Arctic.ru correspondent Kristina Khramtsova interviews Professor Lev Voronkov from the Faculty of Integration Processes at Moscow’s State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO) and an expert on modern Arctic geopolitical issues, on the possible impact of sanctions on Russia’s work within the Arctic Council. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What are the advantages of the Arctic Council rotating chairmanship? 
Lev Voronkov: The Arctic Council is not a traditional international inter-governmental organisation or an NGO. It was conceived and remains a high-level forum of international cooperation whose members work on and pass resolutions by consensus. The Ottawa Declaration, signed by representatives of the eight Arctic states, Denmark, Iceland, Canada, Norway, the Russian Federation, the United States, Finland and Sweden, set guidelines for Arctic Council activities and goals. Under the consensus principle, the Arctic Council’s member states and the forum’s permanent members that represent the main organizations of indigenous Arctic ethnic groups cannot impose their will on other members. The Arctic Council members voluntarily fulfil the resolutions in ways that meet their national interests and within state sovereignty. 
The Arctic Council members introduced the rotating chairmanship to avoid giving the chair country any advantage. As the Arctic Council has no system of agencies, bodies or institutions, the chair country is responsible for organizing the council’s routine activities, including its task forces and expert groups, and to represent the council on the international scene. The Arctic Council Secretariat in Tromso works to assist the chair state in fulfilling its duties. The Arctic Council chair receives the right to promote the high-priority issues of its chairmanship and to focus the attention of all member states on them. However, the other forum members will support these issues to implement them more effectively. 
Some time ago, Canada suggested establishing the Arctic Economic Council which currently facilitates cooperation between regional business communities. During the US chairmanship, the Arctic Coast Guard Forum was established on the initiative of the United States. It facilitates cooperation between member states’ border services in combatting threats to national security. This is largely because official Canadian and US documents regulating Arctic policies state expressly that, from now on, threats to their security include the hypothetical use of frozen Arctic Ocean expanses for organized criminal activity, weapons or drug trafficking and also for illegal migration. So cooperation between the Arctic countries’ border and coast guard services meets everyone’s interests. 
In his remarks at the May 2021 Arctic Council ministerial meeting in Reykjavik, Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov called for holding a summit of Arctic states, as suggested by Finland some time ago. He also suggested that the Arctic Council member states expand their positive relationship to the military side by resuming multilateral dialogue between the Arctic states’ general staffs. He drew attention to Russia’s proposal to digitalize the linguistic and cultural legacy of the indigenous ethnic groups, which was approved by all Arctic Council members. Moreover, Mr Lavrov suggested further expanding cooperation between the Arctic Council and the Arctic Economic Council. The Arctic Council members supported Russia’s action program that contains over 100 different events. 
At the same time, at the Arctic Council ministerial meeting in Reykjavik the ministers approved the council’s first strategic plan. Arctic Council members will be guided by this plan in their work during the next decade. The document reflects the common values and the joint aspirations of the eight Arctic states and six permanent representatives from among the indigenous ethnic groups. 
It is important to note that, although certain member states are involved in anti-Russia sanctions, participants in the Reykjavik ministerial meeting have signed a joint declaration reaffirming the Arctic Council’s commitment to maintaining peace, stability and constructive cooperation in the Arctic region. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Will the anti-Russia sanctions somehow affect Russia’s activity in the Arctic Council? 
Lev Voronkov: No anti-Russia sanctions related to the Arctic Council have been declared, although certain sanctions in other areas have indirectly affected Russia’s activities in the Arctic. You may know that Russia responded to the EU’s sanctions with retaliatory sanctions, which is not exactly promoting cooperation between the EU and the Russian Federation. Of course, Russia would have responded to sanctions in the Arctic in a similar way, which, considering its role and authority in Arctic matters, would have resulted in a complete breakdown of the established system of managing Arctic affairs, and not a single Arctic country is interested in this. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Do the sanctions somehow affect Arctic cooperation in general? 
Lev Voronkov: Of course, the sanctions, especially the financial sanctions, are felt both indirectly and technologically. This is not easy for Russia or for international economic relations in general. All this will pass sooner or later when they (the West) understand that they won’t succeed in imposing conditions for cooperation on Russia and making it act the way the West wants, that Russia is an self-sufficient power. 
As far as Arctic matters are concerned, the Arctic countries continue to cooperate effectively. For example, even during the sanctions, the Arctic countries concluded important agreements like cooperation between coast guard services and on scientific cooperation in the Arctic. The Arctic Council’s productive work as well as preparations for new agreements between the member states continues, something that was confirmed, in part, at the Arctic Council Ministerial conference in Reykjavik. 
So, the public, ritual-like declarations in support of some common political policy of the West regarding Russia is one thing, but the real developments that are taking place among the Arctic states that have many common interests of a fundamental nature, specifically, the protection of their rights to the considerable hydrocarbon, mineral and biological reserves from encroachment by non-Arctic countries, is an entirely different matter; and these things undoubtedly, one way or another, help build up the potential for cooperation between the Arctic Council member states. 
Murmansk Region to start issuing Arctic hectares from August 1 
The Murmansk Region is set to launch the Arctic Hectare program on August 1, 2021, and over 700,000 hectares of land will be allotted. 
A program for allotting Arctic plots of land, due to begin on August 1, 2021, covers 630,000 hectares of forests and 110,000 hectares of other plots of land for any activities not against the law,” the Region’s Minister of Property Relations Viktoria Minkina said at a government meeting. 
The Murmansk Region’s Ministry of Natural Resources, Environment and Fisheries will allot forests under the Arctic Hectare program. The Ministry of Property Relations will provide all other plots of land. These plots should be located near cities, towns and villages. The Kola District provides the largest territories. It will be impossible to obtain plots at restricted-access territories, priority development areas, priority socio-economic development areas, at specially protected nature zones, at military cantonments and border areas, as well as defense facilities. 
It takes just 45 days to process each request and to provide the applicant with a one-hectare plot of land. During this time period, each plot is formed completely and included in cadastral maps and lists. Local residents will be allowed to choose the desired territories on a priority basis. Six months later, all other Russian residents will be able to apply for local plots. 
In April 2021, the Russian Government submitted a bill allowing Russian citizens to obtain Arctic plots of land under the Far Eastern Hectare program to the State Duma. The bill also allows people who have already developed their plots to obtain another hectare of land. 
Yakutia international school introduces Arctic studies 
A course of Arctic studies has been added to the curriculum at the International Arctic School (IAS), the first educational institution of its kind in the Russian Far East, which opened in Yakutsk in September 2020. 
Along with an international training program, the school prioritizes Arctic research. Earlier this year, we launched a course of Arctic studies for seven- to ten-year secondary school students, developed by the Arctic Research Center (ARC). The course culminated in a conference titled Opening the Arctic” attended by the IAS students and satellite school students from all over the republic,” school principal Sardana Tatarinova said. 
The course itself starts with an introduction to the history of the Arctic’s discovery and exploration and a workshop titled A Personified History of Arctic Exploration.” Some parts of it are dedicated to Arctic policies of foreign countries, histories of science and technology in the Arctic, and specific features of this territory. The course ends with a series of lectures on the history of Yakutia’s Arctic areas. 
The IAS has a potential for 220 students and at the moment there are 186 from 22 districts of the republic and the city of Yakutsk. 
The school has a swimming pool, an auditorium, a video conference hall, a synchronized translation system, a workshop, robotics and quadrotor rooms, VR/AR, 3D, a gym, a simulator room, a dance hall, a rock-climbing wall, a planetarium and a video studio. Study rooms have interactive panels and other equipment meeting modern educational standards. There is accommodation for 80 boarders intended for those from provincial areas. We are a full-day school. Lessons are scheduled before lunch. After lunch, students engage in learning activities. Boarders live nearby. We must see to it that they have their hands full from morning till night,” said Tatarinova. 
Voting to name a rescued female bear gets underway on the Active Citizen website 
The Moscow Zoo has moved the voting to name a female bear, saved in the Krasnoyarsk Territory, from social media to the Active Citizen website. No obvious winner emerged in the first week of voting. 
There are two names to choose from – Khatanga and Rada. Followers voted for both names almost equally, leaving thousands of comments under the posts,” the Moscow Zoo press service explained that to determine the leader they decided to move the voting from social media to the Active Citizen municipal platform. 
Khatanga is the name of the biggest village near which the female bear was found. The second name is a shortened form of raduga” (rainbow). 
The bear arrived at the Moscow Zoo on April 21. She was rescued from Bolshevik Island in the Krasnoyarsk Territory where she had followed gold diggers. Her mother was never found. Rospotrebnadzor’s inter-departmental working group made a collective decision to remove the bear from nature and hand her over to the Moscow Zoo under the SOZAR (Union of Zoos and Aquariums of Russia) polar bear program. The bear will undergo rehabilitation, and then experts will make a decision on her future. 
The story of Kyndykan: Yakutia to get a new fairy tale about a little girl who survived a pandemic 200 years ago 
Yakutia’s artists and writers will create a new fairy tale character based on the true story of a little girl named Kyndykan who survived a pandemic 200 years ago. 
As legend has it, Kyndykan was the sole survivor in a nomad camp decimated by smallpox. According to Lidia Tarasova, a young writer from Yakutsk, the new project combines truth, fiction, and Northern mythology, traditions and culture. 
Like all others involved in the project, I was amazed and inspired by Kyndykan’s story, and its energy captivated me. The fairy tale is now almost complete, and one or two chapters remain to be written. The editors and illustrator will then finish the work,” she said. 
According to Tarasova, members of small Northern indigenous ethnic groups are involved in this literary project. Ethnographers, linguists, native speakers and culture bearers, including the famous Even prose writer Anatoly Stepanov-Lamutsky, chairman of the Evens’ Union of Yakutia, and Boris Osipov, a young activist calling for the preservation of the Even language. 
Graphic designer Alexei Vinokurov, a Yakut artist with a Yukagir background, is also working on the project, and he is creating the image of the heroic little girl Kyndykan. 
I am now working on concept art illustrations, including the surroundings, characters, clothes, distinctive features, details and elements. I have already created all the main and supporting characters, protagonists and antagonists. Before joining the Kyndykan team, I became interested in this subject, and I am now studying at an animation school. I will start illustrating the fairy tale’s chapters once the literary editors add the finishing touches,” the artist noted. 
Kyndykan and other characters will eventually star in an animated movie, and they will be part of games and mobile apps. 
In mid-May, Kit Jah, a popular Yakut performer, and rapper Moskila teamed up to create a song and a video clip honoring the brave little girl. They tell the story of steadfast people who live against all odds according to the precepts of their ancestors. The video clip was filmed at a reindeer breeders’ nomad camp in Yakutia’s Even-Bytantaisky District. 
Russians start collecting data in Shokalsky Strait at a depth of 250 m 
Russian oceanologists have started collecting data in the deepest section of Shokalsky Strait linking the Kara and Laptev seas. The results of the research are needed in order to be able to give a description of warm Atlantic waters entering deep Arctic Ocean trenches. 
Oceanologists from the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute have started collecting data in the deepest part of Shokalsky Strait in the Arctic region. For this purpose, an automatic buoy station has been placed at a depth of 350 meters. It will monitor the environment and conduct oceanographic research,” said the press service of the Institute which is located in St. Petersburg. 
The Institute’s sources explained that the station has equipment for measuring water temperatures and salinity levels at five horizons, as well as an acoustic current profiler. The researchers will therefore be able to collect data and discover the state of water masses in Shokalsky Strait and their dynamics continuously for the next 12 months. It took eight hours to install the station. 
Warm Atlantic waters flow inside deep trenches, a distinguishing feature of Shokalsky Strait, and polar researchers are interested in precisely these currents,” the press release noted. 
Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic to digitalize Arctic freight deliveries 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic is creating a digital data network of Arctic freight deliveries that will make it possible to streamline logistics, ensure more reliable shipments and improve the quality of Northern residents’ lives. 
The digitalized version of the Arctic freight deliveries system will make it possible to cut regional outlays by streamlining logistics. It’ll also ensure more reliable shipments and improve the quality of Northern residents’ lives. Yakutia will become a pilot region for testing the digital model,” said Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov. 
According to the Ministry’s press service, the digital model will involve all sections of the Arctic freight deliveries system, including 25 regions, over 300 ships and over three million metric tons of annual freight shipments. 
The system will make it possible to assess resource and logistic restrictions and to streamline logistics and budgetary spending using this data. The Government is spending over 110 billion rubles on the Arctic freight deliveries system,” the press release noted. 
The aim of the project is to resolve the most serious problems of the Arctic freight deliveries system, namely, ineffective logistics and the lack of online statistical updates. These factors often hamper deliveries and increase the prices of various goods. 
Russia extracts oil in the North, but it can also process it 
In an interview with Arctic.ru correspondent Kristina Khramtsova, General Director of the Institute of Regional Problems Dmitry Zhuravlev describes the situation in the Russian Arctic. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Is the Russian Arctic a special territory, a mega region? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: Of course, it is. We can call it a mega region for two reasons. First, because of its importance. The Russian Arctic abounds in undeveloped wealth, and is a key to our regions beyond the Urals. Many Trans-Ural transport arteries are part of the Northern Sea Route (NSR). 
The second reason is its peculiar nature. The geographical and climate conditions are common to all northern areas regardless of what Russian region they are a part of. The North is different from all other areas. It requires different approaches to management and funding. In this sense, it is unlike any other region in terms of life and economic activities on this territory. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What do you think about the strategy for the Socio-Economic Development of the Russian Arctic adopted last year? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: Only those documents that determine tax or AZES benefits are important for life in the North. Strategies are like vectors. 
Say, a decade ago it was clear that oil production had the most potential for development. But which area is the most important today? It is very difficult to fix this in a strategy. After all, any strategy is drafted as a broad outline; this is how it is planned. True, it will be difficult to go into details until general points are made. However, it seems that in the North we have approached the point where a broad outline of a plan does not do the job. 
Kristina Khramtsova: How can this problem be resolved? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: We need to thoroughly analyze the content of the proposals from the regions to develop their own territories. So, planning must go from the bottom up, to some extent. 
We must collect, analyze and pick out the truly useful proposals from the local level and compile a program for developing the Arctic macro region. In so doing, we must proceed from the premise that it is bound to be oriented towards the extraction of minerals. It just cannot be to pursue any other purpose for the time being. 
For example, under Stalin Russia began building a railway along the Arctic Ocean, but we gave up on it without discussing whether it was the right decision or not. Anyway, it doesn’t exist anymore. It would be expensive to build a similar one and even more expensive to maintain it. So, it seems we will have to focus on the development of NSR ports for transport in and out of these regions. 
As for the port of Sabetta, there is no demand in the North for the liquefied gas processed there. So if it is a raw materials base, it is of secondary importance because it is not developed for its own purposes but for other places that use its raw materials. 
Kristina Khramtsova: So it is possible to call the NSR the main integrating element of the Arctic regions? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: Yes, today it is. In principle, expanding the production and processing of raw materials could also be a common goal, but regional capacities alone are not adequate for these objectives. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Can the regions manage the development of the NSR infrastructures Do they get enough funding form the federal center for this purpose? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: Russia has done much to develop the NSR. Navigation runs half the year – this is a rather long period. But now there are limits that will not allow further development. This is not just about funding, although it is clear that not a single region can manage NSR development without support from the federal center. Today, icebreakers can only navigate sections where the ice situation allows it. 
Many people dream about ships sailing this route one after another; they want to see the next ship right after the stern of the one before it. This wouldn’t be bad but we are hardly capable of achieving this, although Russia is the indisputable leader in Arctic navigation. This goal is difficult even for us, and especially for other countries. 
Our Chinese friends, for one, would like us to carry their goods to Europe on the NSR because it’s the shortest, least costly and most efficient route from China to Europe. Yes, we must develop the NSR further, in part, to allow Chinese convoys to travel through it. However, we must understand that given the number of those who want to use it, its capacity is limited. In other words, no matter how much we invest in the NSR, its capacities will never become excessive. 
Kristina Khramtsova: China’s Arctic policy runs counter to Russian interests, but our countries maintain active practical cooperation. How can this be explained? 
Dmitry Zhuravlyov: We cooperate because they are ready to fill up all our transport arteries, and not just the Arctic routes, but still, this is not enough for them. Today, they are in talks with Azerbaijan on a southern railway that would bypass Russia because Russian capacity is no longer enough. 
And we do cooperate, and they are ready to cooperate, but our approaches do not always coincide. The Chinese proceed from the idea that the Northern Sea Route is not Russia’s own artery. We are ready to cooperate with them provided they recognize the Northern Sea Route as Russian territory. 
You see, the Northern Sea Route is more cost-effective than surface transport, than the Trans-Siberian Mainline or the railway via Azerbaijan that remains to be built. The Chinese see this as very important. At the same time, they boast one of leading global positions in terms of their icebreaker fleet, but it did not occurred to them during the times of Mao Zedong to develop nuclear-powered icebreakers, so now they lack that experience. However, China is second only to Russia in terms of its diesel icebreaker fleet. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Will Russia be able to overcome the existing disproportions in its Arctic regions and the development lag relative to the southern regions by 2035 (when the strategy is to be completed)? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: Probably not overcome, but certainly reduced. To overcome such disproportions we need European-type cities along the Arctic Ocean, but we also need people who would want to live in these cities. 
Today in Vorkuta, for example, you have to make an additional payment to the local authorities to rent out your flat. In other words, you have to pay rather than be paid. Even if you abandon your flat, you still have to pay for the utilities. 
We cannot just start creating modern infrastructure for everyday life or for transport. People are required for this. Living standards will go up where production is growing and where oil and gas are produced. It’s more difficult to settle people in other places. Even if you did this artificially, what would people do there? 
Of course, investment in the North reduces the gap between the northern and southern parts of the Krasnoyarsk Territory but it doesn’t eliminate it because their lives are basically different. 
Kristina Khramtsova: How can we keep people from leaving the northern areas? 
Dmitry Zhuravelev: It is necessary to create jobs in mineral extraction. For example, Vorkuta grew and existed around coal. We must launch production that will be profitable despite the enormous hardships in the North. So far, this applies only to liquid hydrocarbons. 
The Arctic zone abounds in minerals but nobody is going to break through the permafrost to extract chunks of iron ore from it. Meanwhile, oil and gas flow naturally, so the efficiency rate is higher in oil and gas production. You can build cities around these deposits and develop the northern territories. 
On the other hand, it is also possible to develop the southern territories at the same time because for many districts in eastern Siberia petrol supplies are very important. It is possible to refine oil in the North; gas is liquefied in Sabetta and oil could be refined there as well. People in Yakutia would be happy about this. They are eager to have their own oil pipeline. And I haven’t mentioned that a portion of the profits from the development of these deposits will go to the regional budgets. 
Kristina Khramtsova: The strategy provides for creating 200,000 jobs at new companies in the Russian Arctic by 2035. Is this a feasible goal? What might prevent implementation? 
Dmitry Zhuravelev: It is possible. If we develop the raw materials industry, it is possible to create 200,000 jobs there. It is also possible to develop not only extraction and production but processing as well. The point is that these are very serious projects, but they could fail due to outside pressure. 
Our main products in this area are raw materials. If they are not consumed because of some new sanctions, this entire infrastructure would simply be useless because our raw materials are primarily produced for consumption abroad, not at home. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What do you think about the level of inter-regional cooperation between the Arctic regions? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: On the one hand, there are special associations that support such cooperation, for instance the Mayors of Arctic Cities. On the other hand, there are not too many opportunities for it. We cannot say that our regional budgets are overflowing. Meanwhile, the main method of cooperation is to consolidate the resources for resolving various problems. 
It is possible to bring workers from the European part of the country in as a last resort. But not all places have things to consolidate. In areas with developed raw material production and a subsoil tax, the regions can come to terms between themselves and consolidate their resources. But if there is no subsoil tax, there are no profits. What money can they use to cooperate? 
Understandably, port cities along the Arctic Ocean are doomed to cooperation because the same convoy calls on every port. If it didn’t call on the previous port, it won’t come to yours, either. But this kind of cooperation is relative. 
The point is not that inter-regional cooperation does not exist or that somebody doesn’t want it. What matters is that the challenges are too great to be resolved even by regional unions alone. We need this cooperation; it will help, but in the final analysis, funds will have to be forced out from the federal budget at long last. 
In other words, the level of cooperation matches the current opportunities. If they had a northern railway project like the one that existed under Stalin, they would probably have cooperated, but that doesn’t exist anymore. 
Kristina Khramtsova: Do regions in the Russian Arctic compete for the status of the Arctic’s capital? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: No. Only Arkhangelsk and Murmansk, for one, can compete for the status of the capital in the western part of the North. But we don’t have a definite capital for the eastern part. The Arctic territory in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) is facing completely different problems – they are not interested in what is happening in Murmansk. The same is true of the Krasnoyarsk Territory – it can take longer to fly from one part of this territory to another than to fly to Japan, and they are not also concerned about Murmansk. 
Even climate processes are different in the eastern and western parts of the Russian Arctic. The climate is getting milder in the west but we are not sure about the east. 
So, Moscow is the capital of the eastern North. The research centers and other offices are there. There is no point in establishing them in Yakutsk or Krasnoyarsk. There is no explicit economic and administrative center of the eastern North. 
If we implement more oil, gas and serious shelf projects, the capital will be in the center of these developments. But this is still a process, not a result. 
Kristina Khramtsova: How should the state support the indigenous minorities of the North? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: Economic development of the northern territories may deal a blow to the environment. The environment is fragile in the North; if an off-roader drives through, the wheel tracks will be there for a hundred years. The indigenous minorities live on what they have under their feet and environmental protection hits them like a cannon. They lived independently until we arrived. Now that we’re there, we must support them. 
What they need is not just tax benefits or the right to fish. It is first of all necessary to prevent environmental disasters. This is the main threat to the indigenous minorities. We must minimize the consequences of our commercial activities. This problem is more sensitive in the North. Obviously, we also need to develop the medical and education infrastructure. 
Kristina Khramtsova: What do you think about the coverage of activities in the Arctic by the media and the expert community? 
Dmitry Zhuravlev: I think coverage is insufficient, but this is my subjective opinion. There was a burst of interest prior to 2015. As Special Presidential Envoy to the North, Artur Chilingarov continuously monitored and encouraged this process. Now, after the accession of Crimea and the start of the various sanctions, this issue sometimes does not seem as important. And now we have the pandemic on top of all that. More urgent problems move to the fore. 
I think Arctic issues are very important and require attention. Not everyone shares my opinion. Some people see the North as a very expensive amusement, that we must first resolve our urgent problems and then deal with it. I believe this approach is misguided. Former Mayor of Vorkuta told me once: You can forget about everything you have built but then don’t use because it will disappear in half a year.” The Arctic climate will not allow us to build a road and then forget about it because it will just disappear before long. The same is true of many things up there. 
Rostourism to draft international Arctic tourism standards 
Russia could become the first country to draft international Arctic tourism standards, said Tatyana Menshikova, acting head of the Department of State Tourism Projects and Tourism Safety at the Federal Agency for Tourism (Rostourism). 
All of us know that the Arctic zone has no international standards or standardization system. Russia can voice this initiative and become the first country to draft and approve tourism and safety standards for the Arctic zone,” Menshikova said in Norilsk at an expanded meeting on the development of physical fitness, sports and tourism in the Russian Arctic. 
Earlier, Rostourism drafted new national Arctic tourism standards aiming to ensure the sustainable development of northern regions. 
Presidential Aide Igor Levitin also noted that, in order to expand Arctic tourism, it would be necessary to build runways for light fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters. 
People’s interest in trips to these territories is highly important. But investors must create the transport infrastructure for this purpose. We have to upgrade our port infrastructure. The federal government, the territory and, of course, local authorities have to address problems in this field. And, of course, there are airports. We need a lot of small runways for light fixed-wing aircraft and helicopters,” Levitin noted at the event. 
According to Levitin, Norilsk Nickel is implementing the relevant project in the Krasnoyarsk Territory and the Murmansk Region. 
Russian military to conduct strategic Arctic exercise this fall 
This coming fall, the Russian military are set to conduct a strategic Arctic exercise, as well as an inter-branch exercise to ensure security of the Northern Sea Route. 
This coming fall, the Northern Fleet will take part in a strategic military exercise in the Arctic, its main zone of operations. This will become the main event for checking the combat readiness of the inter-branch strategic formation’s forces and elements to accomplish their designated tasks,” the Northern Fleet’s press service said. 
There are also plans to hold a series of inter-branch exercises for ensuring safety of the Northern Sea Route. 
This year, an Arctic task force consisting of the Fleet’s warships and supply ships with Marine units onboard will conduct its tenth, anniversary, mission via the Arctic Ocean’s seas and will also stage several amphibious landings on the Russian Arctic’s islands and continental coast,” the Fleet’s press service added. 
Early in June, Russia and Norway will hold their joint annual exercise Barents in the Barents Sea. 
The Northern Fleet will contribute its rescue tugboat Nikolai Chiker, an Ilyushin Il-38 May anti-submarine warfare (ASW) aircraft that can also fly search-and-rescue missions and a Kamov Ka-27 PS Helix helicopter,” the Northern Fleet’s press service reported. 
According to the press service, the main aim of the exercise is to practice joint operations during high-seas search-and-rescue missions, to save people in distress, to contain oil spills and to prevent them from polluting the water surface during the Arctic’s intensive industrial development. 
Barents is the only annual Russian-Norwegian search-and-rescue exercise in the Arctic region,” the press release reads. 
Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment unveils new Arctic geological prospecting program 
This week, Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov signed a geological prospecting program for the Russian Arctic. The document will aim to provide the Northern Sea Route with long-term sources of freight until 2035. 
The program’s first stage is to be implemented in 2022-2024, followed by the second stage in 2025-2035. It is to receive 190.995 billion rubles’ worth of federal funding. 
It took the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment and the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic almost six months to coordinate the program aiming to conduct Arctic geological prospecting operations along the Northern Sea Route. Both ministries tried to decide whether Arctic geological prospecting operations should focus on hydrocarbons or solid mineral deposits. The final document prioritizes the development of the latter type of deposits. 
The Russian Arctic has a vast resource potential and accounts for up to 25 percent of the country’s crude oil deposits and 70 percent of its natural gas deposits. Given the current situation on the global energy markets, we are updating production forecasts for all types of resources, primarily copper, gold, platinum-group metals and diamonds,” Alexander Kozlov said. 
He noted that the program was aimed at studying the Russian Arctic’s geological structure in greater detail and listing promising mineral deposits in order to create a minerals and raw materials potential that would facilitate freight traffic via the Northern Sea Route. 
Small-scale geological prospecting projects are to cover 100 percent of the Russian Arctic’s territory by 2035, with medium-scale next-generation projects covering at least 47.5 percent (their current share is 33.5 percent). About 133 promising mine sites for licensing ground-based solid mineral deposits in the P3 forecast resources category will be prepared. There will also be at least 860 mine sites in the P2 and P3 categories, including 360 mine sites with placer gold deposits. Additional hydrocarbon resources totaling over 413 million metric tons of reference fuel will also be located on the ground and the continental shelf, in terms of the DL category’s running total. 
Here is a highly important aspect: In 2035, the share of private investment in Arctic hydrocarbon prospecting operations is to reach 50 percent of nationwide investment volumes; and the share of private investment in solid mineral deposits’ prospecting operations is to total 15 percent. The implementation of the program will make it possible to provide additional mineral deposits, allowing the annual transport of 60 million metric tons of minerals via the Northern Sea Route by 2035. 
The Ministry of Natural Resource’s program mentions forecasts by the International Energy Agency implying that global gas consumption is to soar by 25 percent and will reach five trillion cubic meters by 2035. Developing countries will account for the bulk of the increase in the demand for gas; add to this the diminishing share of the European nuclear power industry and efforts to replace local nuclear power plants with environmentally friendly natural gas. Coal consumption will grow by an insignificant margin in Asian countries where it will be used to generate electricity and produce steel. 
Worldwide gold consumption is growing steadily despite short-term recessions, and it is set to increase by five to 10 percent in 2035, to reach 4,590 metric tons. Global consumption of platinum-group metals will continue to grow and may soar by 30 percent by 2035. Copper consumption is to rise by over 45 percent, and that of nickel, 2-2.5-fold. Rare-earth metals production and consumption is to increase at least two times over, reaching 340,000 metric tons per year. 
Government and scientists prepare digital Arctic development plan 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the Eastern Center of State Planning (Vostokgosplan) and the Economics Faculty of Lomonosov Moscow State University are working on ArcticLabs.RF, an integral statistics, information and analysis platform or digital state plan for monitoring and governing the socioeconomic development of Russia’s Arctic region. 
We must have a clear picture of the necessary infrastructure, social facilities and logistics to be able to make use of the region’s natural competitive advantages and to implement modern technologies for getting the largest possible added value from the mineral resources mined in the region. This integrated puzzle can only be completed with the help of a modern system of state inter-sectoral and macro-territorial planning. It is this digital development plan that we are working on,” Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov noted. 
ArcticLabs.RF is based on the use of a dynamic mathematical model to create development scenarios for Russia’s Arctic and the Northern Sea Route. According to the ministry, the creation of a digital plan is stipulated in the Basic Principles of Russian Federation State Policy in the Arctic to 2035. 
ArcticLabs.RF will be used to plan development scenarios for the Northern Sea Route and also to assess the comprehensive impact of investment projects in the Russian Far East and Arctic, infrastructure bottlenecks and economic development pace in individual regions. We will create sector-based and comprehensive demographic models. The use of this tool will enable us to forecast the efficiency of state support measures as well as to calculate the best possible trajectory of sectoral development,” the ministry’s press service pointed out. 
The system’s analytical block will be used to monitor and streamline northern deliveries, thereby helping reduce the regions’ expenditure, enhance the reliability of deliveries and, ultimately, improve the quality of life in the Arctic region. 
Eleven regions to host events during Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship 
During Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council, 11 regions will host events dedicated to economic cooperation, climate change and the environment in the Arctic, human capital development and emergency prevention. 
The events will involve 40,000 people, and they will be held in 11 regions. The activities will take place in 10 main areas, such as economic cooperation, climate change and the environment in the Arctic, human capital development, indigenous peoples, emergency prevention, infrastructure development and sustainable shipping,” said Minister of the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov at the St. Petersburg International Economic Forum. 
He also noted that great attention would be given to the development of the Northern Sea Route, international scientific cooperation, technology development, Arctic youth, Arctic tourism and culture. 
According to the Ambassador of Finland to Russia Antti Helantera, the coronavirus pandemic has become a great challenge for the indigenous peoples of the North, including due to the forced closing of national borders. 
The pandemic is certainly a challenge for all of us, <…> considering that the borders meant almost nothing in the North and for its residents during the past several decades. However, the pandemic forced all the countries to close their borders, and the people living far from capital cities have no open border in the North. So the situation in the North has changed,” said the ambassador at the forum. 
He also underscored the importance of cross-border cooperation between the Arctic states and expressed hope for interesting projects during Russia’s chairmanship. 
The plan includes 116 activities during Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council. 
Several countries launch simultaneous military exercises in the Arctic 
The Russian Navy’s Northern Fleet launched drills in the Barents Sea to practice defense of the country’s Arctic borders. 
Today, the Northern Fleet’s naval task forces launched a two-sided classification tactical exercise as part of their summer combat training schedule for the Barents Sea region. The drills focus on protecting the Russian Federation’s Arctic borders from naval threats,” the Fleet’s press service reported. 
It was also reported that the exercise involves coastal units, over 20 warships and submarines, as well as about 10 fixed-wing planes and helicopters. 
At various stages of the exercise, homogeneous and heterogeneous tactical groups will practice joint operations, cooperate with aviation units, escort a warship unit and defend it from ‘enemy’ submarines and various air-to-surface weapons systems, and they will also repel ‘enemy’ warship units,” the press service added. 
The biennial Arctic Challenge Exercise involving Finnish, Swedish and Norwegian air forces also kicked off in the region. This year, it also includes a US Marine Corps unit. 
According to the Russian Embassy in the United States, the Arctic Challenge Exercise involving US forces is provocative because it runs counter to the peaceful development of the Arctic region. 
Exercises #ArcticChallenge with participation of @HQUSAFEAFAF are provocative. These maneuvers do not establish any framework for mutual trust in Europe and contradict to peaceful and sustainable development of #ArcticRegion,” the Embassy said on its Twitter account. 
According to the Finnish Air Force’s website, the 250-strong USMC unit has 10 F/A-18 Hornet fighters, two KC-130 aerial refueling tankers and transport aircraft from the Marine Aerial Refueler Transport Squadron 452 (VMGR-452). 
First stage of Master of the Arctic expedition ends 
On June 10, the first stage of the Master of the Arctic expedition ended at Domodedovo International Airport outside Moscow. Its members spent 26 days in the Arctic. 
We got a nice tan during the endless polar day, roamed the area and spotted wide-awake marmots and newly-arrived ruffs. We braved freezing temperatures of minus 10 degrees Celsius and plus 13-degree heat, as well as snow and ice, and we also admired the first tundra flowers,” one of the expedition members said. 
In all, the specialists covered eight routes and spent some five to six hours on each route as they searched for polar bears and marine mammals. 
The exact number of animals will be known after we process all the flight data, including about 100,000 photos and the same number of infrared camera images. The area has bears, ringed seals and walruses. We also sighted some musk-oxen but failed to photograph them. Perhaps this is because they are land, rather than marine, mammals,” the scientists noted. 
Apart from monitoring the polar bear population, the specialists met with Tiksi residents several times, showed them a film on the results of the 2020 expedition, and conducted environmental protection and space research lessons at two local schools. Dmitry Glazov, head of the research team, told school students about the specifics of marine mammals’ life. In turn, Hero of Russia Valery Tokarev, a test pilot and cosmonaut, discussed the mysteries of outer space. 
On the same day, June 10, members of three expeditions set out from Arkhangelsk for the Franz Josef Land archipelago aboard the scientific research ship Mikhail Somov. Once there, they will continue to look for polar bears from a helicopter. 
It will take the ship five to six days to reach Novaya Zemlya, and we will later sail to Franz Josef Land. Team members will board a helicopter there, locate polar bears and fit them with satellite tracking collars. They will also take biological samples from the bears. This may sound curious, but only female polar bears can wear these collars because the males’ neck is too large for such devices,” expedition organizers noted. 
Satellite tracking collars will help scientists follow the migration routes of the endangered female predators, and find out where they spend various seasons, build their dens and obtain food. The results of medical tests will be added to the Arctic animals’ case histories. This time, polar bears will be tested for COVID-19 for the first time. 
Yamal Governor to organize lecture and guided tour for Bolshaya Peremena contestants aboard icebreaker Andrei Vilkitsky 
On June 21, Yamal Governor Dmitry Artyukhov will organize a lecture and a guided tour for Bolshaya Peremena (Lengthy Break) contestants aboard the unique Russian icebreaker Andrei Vilkitsky. He will give a lecture on the history of exploring and developing the Arctic under a project of the Znanie (Knowledge) Society. 
Russia’s northern territories play a strategic role in ensuring its sustainable and harmonious development. The Arctic zone accounts for 20 percent of Russia’s entire area. Not a single state can boast such experience and achievements in developing the Arctic territories’ economic sector,” the organizers noted. 
The event is scheduled to take place aboard the icebreaker Andrei Vilkitsky named after the famous hydrographer and geodesist who studied the Arctic Ocean’s seas. The icebreaker was designed to facilitate crude oil shipments from the Yamal Peninsula’s Novoportovskoye field via the Arctic Gate terminal. The ship creates waterways allowing tankers to quickly and safely shuttle between the terminal and the open sea. 
Head of the Russian Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North (RAIPN) suggests modifying the nomad registration system 
Member of the Federation Council and RAIPN President Grigory Ledkov has come up with a proposal to modify the existing procedure whereby the indigenous peoples of the North are registered. His idea is that people should be registered where they actually are. 
The next issue is registering the nomads. In 2011, it was decided to register them at the nearest settlements, but this was only a temporary measure intended to take the edge off the problem and to enable people to get Russian Federation passports, because they had been denied these as they were not registered. Today, the situation is still vague, because, in effect, we handle falsified data on people’s whereabouts. We register them at small administrations, tiny settlements, which they pass through once a year, while roaming from place to place, but, in fact, there are no people there, it is just an office,” he told a working group of the Council to Develop the Far East, Arctic and Antarctic established at the Federation Council of the Russian Federation. 
According to Ledkov, this uncertainty with regard to the registration rules creates pension and social support problems for the members of the small indigenous communities. They also face difficulties in getting other essential services and implementing their right to vote. 
We think each case should be treated on its merit. There are few such communities left in the Arctic and we could register people where they actually live or happen to be, at their nomadic camps,” he suggested. 
The Arctic Council, which Russia will chair from 2021 to 2023, after taking over from Iceland in May, will focus on improving the quality of life of small indigenous communities. Currently Russia’s Arctic territories are inhabited by 19 small indigenous peoples of the North numbering a total of 102,000 people. 
Chukotka governor suggests increasing Arctic cashback for tourists 
Chukotka Governor Roman Kopin has submitted a proposal to the Federal Agency for Tourism to increase the limit of tourist cashback for those traveling to the Russian Arctic and the Far Eastern Federal District. 
In order to make tourist packages more affordable and to support event tourism against the backdrop of heavy spending on holding festivals, it was proposed to increase the tourist cashback for those visiting major events in the Russian Arctic and Far Eastern Federal District, from 20,000 rubles to 50,000 rubles,” the governor was quoted as saying. 
Kopin noted that the Arctic cashback will help to lower the price of tours and local tourist agencies will offer an interesting program for tourists in all seasons. 
It is also necessary to revise federal co-financing of festivals, including the expenses to build temporary accommodation and transport costs related to the transfer of participants and guests,” Kopin added. 
This year, Chukotka will be the venue for the Arctic International Film Festival Golden Raven; in 2022, plans call for holding the Bering Strait International Festival. The region will also hold the Polar Bear Universe international research and practical conference. 
The fourth stage of the tourist cashback project was launched in Russia on June 16. Tourists can purchase package tours or accommodation for the dates between October 1 and December 24, and river cruise tours from September 1 to the end of the navigation season. 
Yakutia ends 40-year seed-storage experiment 
Scientists will sum up the results of a permafrost seed storage experiment that was launched in Yakutia in the 1970s. Specialists from the Vavilov Federal Research Center All-Russian Institute of Plant Genetic Resources were responsible for conducting the study. 
Developed in the 1970s, the relevant technology makes it possible to maintain subzero underground temperatures all year round and to effectively preserve the seeds. An initial check shows that biomaterials, stored for 40 years underground, boast 95 percent germination rates. 
Scientists from the Vavilov Federal Research Center All-Russian Institute of Plant Genetic Resources will visit Yakutia and will analyze the results of an experiment that has lasted over 40 years. A project to assess the possibility of using layers of permafrost to store seeds under from the collection of the Vavilov Institute was launched by this center, the Melnikov Permafrost Institute and the Safonov Yakutia Scientific Research Institute of Agriculture of the Soviet Academy of Sciences’ Siberian Branch in the 1970s,” the press service of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) Government said. 
Today, over 11,000 seed samples of agricultural and wild plants are stored in Yakutia at a depth of 11 meters. As the depository maintains natural subzero permafrost temperatures, this makes it possible to minimize electricity expenses and to spend just 4,000 rubles for this purpose annually. 
The Yakutia seed vault can greatly expand its capacity within the framework of the North Science and Education Center and Russia’s leading plant-growing institute. It will therefore be able to compete with similar foreign facilities,” the press release noted. 
Earlier, President of the Russian Academy of Sciences Alexander Sergeyev suggested that the Arctic Council should establish an international cryogenic seed storage facility in Yakutia because the existing Svalbard Global Seed Vault on West Spitsbergen Island where all countries store samples of plant seeds is beginning to disintegrate because of the melting permafrost. 
Second stage of Master of the Arctic 2021 project concluded in Arkhangelsk 
The second expedition group of the environmental project held to study the polar bear has returned to Arkhangelsk. Scientists taking part in the Master of the Arctic project spent 20 days aboard the Mikhail Somov research and expedition vessel. 
During the expedition, the expedition members visited the polar station on Cape Svyatoy Nos and studied islands in the Novaya Zemlya and Franz Josef Land archipelagos. 
The expedition’s main goal was to estimate the number of polar bears in the area, learn more about their migration patterns and routes, as well as to tag some polar bears. The project also included a survey of marine mammals and the assessment of the environmental situation in the Arctic as a whole. 
For the first time we went on an expedition aboard a vessel where it was possible to work from a helicopter. Thanks to this, we could approach the objects of our interest faster and get closer. Each of the six flights was effective: we tracked the animals and examined them. Satellite collars were put on two female polar bears, and biological samples were taken from male polar bears,” said Ilya Mordvintsev, scientific head of the expedition’s second stage, leading research fellow at the Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution at the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
In the near future the research vessel will again set out for the Arctic. 
The Master of the Arctic project was held for the second consecutive year at the initiative of the Federal Service for Supervision of Natural Resources (Rosprirodnadzor) with support from the Arctic Initiatives Center autonomous non-profit organization, by scientists from the Severtsov Institute of Ecology and Evolution at the Russian Academy of Sciences and employees of the Clean Seas International Environmental Fund. The Arkhangelsk Region Ministry of Forestry supported the project in the region. 
President signs law on simplified environmental expert checks during construction of Arctic social facilities 
President of Russia Vladimir Putin signed a law stipulating simplified environmental impact assessments during construction of social and transport infrastructure facilities in the Arctic zone. 
The bill was drafted in order to streamline the procedure for conducting environmental assessments of design forms and records for building or overhauling permanent facilities in the Russian Arctic. 
Under the document, specific requirements for conducting federal-level state environmental impact assessments shall not apply to the design forms and records of social and transport infrastructure facilities that are on a list stipulated by the Government of the Russian Federation. The same also concerns facilities being built or overhauled within the Russian Arctic’s communities located outside specially protected natural areas. 
Simplified environmental expert check requirements will also apply to inter-municipal motorways, due to be built and overhauled outside communities, specially protected natural areas. 
Arctic Council discusses methods to implement its strategic plan 
The Arctic Council member states discussed initial work to implement priorities of the newly adopted 2021-2030 Strategic Plan held at the level of senior officials. 
According to the press service of the Russian Foreign Ministry, the council’s first executive meeting under the Russian Chairmanship was held in a hybrid format at the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) to the President of Russia in Moscow on June 29-30. 
During the two-day event, the Senior Arctic Officials and Permanent Participant Heads of Delegation focused on the steps to be taken to implement the Reykjavik Declaration, which was adopted by the ministers of the eight Arctic states during the Arctic Council Ministerial meeting in May 2021, as well as initial work to implement the priorities of the newly adopted Strategic Plan,” the press release says. 
The next meeting of the Senior Officials and a plenary session of the Arctic Council will be held in Salekhard in November 2021. 
Applications accepted for contest of short prose about the Arctic 
An open literary short prose contest Voices of midnight lands” gets underway on July 5. The theme of the contest is The Arctic as a transmyth in the past, present and future: History of exploration, continuity of generations, and cultural ties and traditions of the northern regions.” 
The contest Voices of midnight lands” is unique. It is part of a versatile educational media project with a self-explanatory name: Russian estuary. Northern route.” It is devoted to the cultural legacy of the northern people, traditions of navigation and wooden shipbuilding. <…> 
People taking part in the contest will get an opportunity to reveal their talent for writing and share an interesting story as well as compete for the prize. The writers will also be making a contribution towards helping to create a topical, integral and appealing image of the North,” said poet Anastasia Romanova, an ideological inspirer and organizer of the contest. 
Any Russian citizen aged 18 and over will be allowed to enter the contest. The organizers of the contest offer the participants three ways to cover the theme of the Arctic: 
- Stories about travelers and seafarers, researchers and trailblazers of the Arctic; - Stories about the encounter of cultures and cooperation of the indigenous people of the North with colonists and trailblazers; - Family legends, modern stories, past occurrences and concoctions of the coasts of the Shivering Sea and the Last Ocean.” 
One of the main requirements is that the stories should be kept short — from 3,000 to 10,000 characters. The writers may send three pieces of prose to the contest with an overall length of 10,000 characters. 
The authors of the three best stories will receive cash prizes: 
- First place: 30,000 rubles - Second place: 10,000 rubles - Third place: 5,000 rubles. 
Following the contest, the winning stories will be used in theater productions that will be presented at the first run of a documentary made as part of the project Russian estuary. Northern route.” They will be posted on the websites of the contest and its information partners. 
Applications for the contest will be received from July 5 to September 14, 2021. For full details, go to https://golosasevera.ru. 
A professional jury will pass its judgment on the works of the participants. The main criteria will be an ability of the writers to match the theme and format of the contest, artistic expression and ingenuity in presenting the material. The jury will consist of writers and historians, ethnographers and folklorists, poets and also travelers. 
New law lifts environmental assessment requirement for Arctic drilling 
President Vladimir Putin signed a law on streamlining the mechanism of environmental assessments during Arctic capital construction projects. The law, due to enter into force on August 17, 2021, lifts the environmental assessment requirement for drill holes. 
Under current legislation, project documentation for all permanent structures in the Russian Arctic is subject to federal-level state environmental assessments, which often make it impossible to quickly build important social facilities. 
The new law considerably reduces administrative barriers and excludes project documentation for social and transport infrastructure facilities that have minimal environmental impact from the list of facilities subject to environmental assessments in the Arctic zone. The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic compiles the list, and the Russian Government approves it. These facilities are not listed in the first and second categories; they are sited in communities and outside specially protected nature areas,” the press service of the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment said. 
Project documentation for certain drill holes are also excluded from the list of facilities subject to environmental risk assessments under Sub-Clause 7.5 of Article 11 of the Federal Law on Environmental Risk Assessments. The same concerns documents for inter-municipal motorways due to be constructed and overhauled outside communities and specially protected natural areas. 
Mishustin calls for expanding geological prospecting operations 
Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has called for expanding geological prospecting and exploration operations to locate and study new mineral deposits and for introducing new technologies more actively. 
Our country ranks among the global leaders in terms of mineral deposits and their extraction. It is necessary to create favorable conditions for ensuring a sufficient increment in the mineral raw material base, so that this increment would always exceed production volumes. For this purpose, it is necessary to expand geological prospecting operations to locate and study new mineral deposits,” he said at a government meeting. 
Mishustin went on to say that Russia should focus on the continental shelf of the Arctic Ocean’s seas, little-studied areas of the Arctic zone, Eastern Siberia and the Far East. 
We have to introduce new technologies more actively. First of all, it is necessary to digitalize millions of files containing accumulated geological data and all government services in this field. Consequently, it will become possible to more effectively monitor the rational and frugal management of mineral resources and their protection, to develop mineral deposits more effectively and profitably and to ensure stricter compliance with environmental standards,” he said. 
The Prime Minister emphasized that transparent and understandable rules in the area of managing mineral resources are an essential precondition for attracting new investment. 
Arkhangelsk researchers find unique Arctic bumblebee subspecies 
Researchers have discovered a population of Bombus glacialis bumblebees, an endemic High Arctic subspecies, on Wrangel Island in the Arctic Ocean. 
Earlier on, it was believed that this bumblebee subspecies was only endemic to the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago, part of the Arkhangelsk Region. However, Mikhail Berezin, Head of the Moscow Zoo’s Entomology Department, found a similar bumblebee 3,600 kilometers away from Novaya Zemlya, on Wrangel Island, affiliated with the Chukotka Autonomous Area. 
The expert handed the bumblebee over to biologists in Arkhangelsk. Gene profiling showed it to be a unique, Wrangel Island, Bombus glacialis subspecies. Its appearance is slightly different from that of its Novaya Zemlya relative,” and the newly-found bumblebee is a bit lighter in color. There are many more bumblebees on Wrangel Island because it abounds in leguminous plants, their favorite variety of food. 
According to researchers, Bombus glacialis bumblebees are quite unique. It is believed that, in ancient geological eras, they drifted about most of the continental Arctic shelf that was not covered with water. 
Researchers believe that Wrangel Island was part of Beringia, an ancient natural bridge” between Asia and North America, used by various animals traveling back and forth. As the island was not completely covered with glaciers, many endemic species, typical of certain areas alone, live there. 
Wrangel Island’s bumblebees build their nests inside the burrows of lemmings that have also been living in the Arctic since time immemorial. Arctic foxes and birds feed on these insects. The bumblebees and their nests are also heavily infected with parasites, including ticks and nematodes. 
Researchers fear that Bombus glacialis bumblebees could become extinct, due to global warming and the active development of Arctic mineral deposits. They will request that this subspecies be listed in the Red Data Book. 
Doomsday vault for music to be built on Spitsbergen 
A doomsday vault for musical recordings is to be built at a depth of 1,000-feet on Spitsbergen in 2022. 
The facility will be constructed at a depth of 1,000 feet beneath the snow and rock and it is expected to have e a service life of not less than 1,000 years. According to the plan, the vault will start functioning at the onset of 2022” as reported via the official Telegram-channel of the Arctic and Antarctic Research Institute. 
The works will be archived and stored using special technologies, including binary coding and high-density QR-codes recorded on a durable optical film. The first compositions to be deposited will be musical pieces by indigenous peoples. Later contemporary works will be added to the collection. 
Open-source archive was already delivered to a protected Arctic repository in 2020. In total, 21 TBytes of data on 186 reels of piqlFilm (digital photosensitive archival film) were placed in storage. 
Russian military gather 750 tons of scrap metal during 2021 Arctic cleanup campaign 
Members of an environmental platoon serving with the Central Military District collected about 750 metric tons of scrap metal during the seasonal Arctic cleanup operations near the township of Volochanka in the Taimyr Dolgano-Nenets District of the Krasnoyarsk Territory. This is 150 metric tons more than planned. 
From early June 2021, military ecologists of the Central Military District collected 750 metric tons of scrap metal. This was 150 metric tons more than planned, during the Arctic cleanup operations. The soldiers dismantled and cut up 25 metal structures and reservoirs, compacted over 5,500 drums and prepared the batches of scrap metal ready to be transported to storage facilities,” explained Yulia Kolokolnikova, Head of the Central Military District’s Environmental Safety Service. 
The 2021 Arctic cleanup operation for this year is now complete, and the soldiers are re-deploying to their permanent bases. 
The Central Military District’s press service reported that over 30 soldiers and about 20 items of special-purpose equipment and motor vehicles had been involved in the process of removing industrial waste from the Arctic. A self-contained field camp accommodated the soldiers. 
Russia launches pilot waste incinerator in the Arctic 
The testing of a waste incineration plant has started in the Arctic village of Chokurdakh in Yakutia. 
For the first time in Yakutia, the Far East or the Arctic, we have purchased an incinerator that will be placed in the village of Chokurdakh, in the Allaikhovsky District. The plant has started working under an agreement with the district administration and has already incinerated about 125 cubic meters of waste. We appreciate the district administration’s cooperation in providing a site for the incinerator that can be used all year round,” said Vitaly Chikachev, head of the state housing and utilities service provider in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). 
This piece of equipment is fully certified and operational and being tested right now, he explained. 
We need diesel fuel if we want to be able to incinerate waste. <...> We will see how everything goes during the winter months, and later on, according to the investment program, we will consider buying such plants for other districts too,” he added. 
Hydrographic survey vessel Gorizont defines borders of Russia’s shelf in the Arctic 
The crew of the Northern Fleet’s hydrographic survey vessel Gorizont has specified the coordinates of the Russian border. During comprehensive oceanographic surveys, they took photos of over 11,000 km of the ocean floor, and collected water and bottom samples in the Barents and Kara seas. 
We measured the depths and specified the coordinates of the critical points. These are the coordinates of the Russian border,” said Captain of the Gorizont Vitaly Khopryachkov. 
The crew conducted surveys in the area of Franz Josef Land over the past two months. Now the Gorizont is back in the village of Mishukovo (Murmansk Region), the base of the Northern Fleet’s hydrographic survey vessels. 
The press service also reported that the hydrographic survey vessel Romuald Muklevich returned to Murmansk last week. As part of the Northern Fleet and the Russian Geographical Society’s joint expedition, its crew explored the coast off Severny Island of the Novaya Zemlya Archipelago and the continental coast, where the Northern convoys sailed during the Great Patriotic War. 
Yakutia launches register of genetic disorders among Arctic peoples 
Researchers from the North-Eastern Federal University have begun working on a register and biobank of genetic disorders prevalent among the peoples of the Arctic. 
Our lab cooperates with the Medical Genetic Center at the National Center of Medicine – Republic Hospital No. 1,” said Nadezhda Maksimova, head of the Molecular Medicine and Human Genetics research lab at the Medical University. 
The lab is also compiling a register of genetic and congenital pathologies of the peoples of the Arctic and northeastern Russia. It will include a biobank to store biological samples collected from all patients with genetic disorders and their family members. 
The register will be used as a resource for studying the gene pool of the peoples of the northeastern Russia and the Arctic. The project covers Yakutia and Chukotka. The research is aimed at solving fundamental medical genetics problems involving the study of hereditary diseases. 
Maksimova noted that the project would help generate new ideas about more accurate health prediction, disease prevention and methods to reduce morbidity, disability and mortality rates in northeastern Russia and the Arctic, as well as nationwide. 
Arctic development budget for 2022-2023 to be increased 
Allocations for the state program Socioeconomic Development of the Arctic Zone of the Russian Federation will amount to over 21.4 billion rubles, with spending in 2022-2023 to be increased by 4.3 billion rubles. 
Compared to the funding approved in the Federal Law No. 385-FZ, allocations from the federal budget will be increased by 2.068 billion rubles in 2022 and 2.325 billion in 2023, whereas spending in 2024 will go down by 1.624 billion rubles,” says the memorandum to the draft federal budget of the Russian Federation for 2022-2024. 
According to the draft budget, 8.12 billion rubles will be earmarked for the program in 2022, 7.49 billion in 2023 and 5.86 billion in 2024. 
The memorandum reads that the funding of the state program Socioeconomic Development of the Arctic in 2022-2023 will be increased to cover the preparations for and the implementation of Russia’s Arctic Council Chairmanship. 
In addition, allocations for the development of the Northern Sea Route will be increased by 4 billion rubles in 2022, to be invested in the construction of the Utrenny LNG terminal in the port of Sabetta. 
The financing of the Northern Sea Route Development project will be upgraded with due regard for a planned increase of 4.074 billion rubles in budgetary allocations in 2022, to be invested in the final stage of the construction of the Utrenny terminal for liquefied natural gas and stable gas condensate, and will decrease by 10.5 billion rubles in 2024, with these funds to be redistributed in favor of building the lead nuclear powered icebreaker of Project 10510 Leader,” the document explains. 
The 16.14 billion rubles reserved during the drafting of the 2024 federal budget will be used to finance the Northern Sea Route Development project in accordance with government decisions. 
As of November 2020, the completion of the Utrenny terminal, which is being built within the framework of the Arctic LNG 2 project, reached 69 percent. 
European scientists: Sea ice extent in the Arctic is rapidly declining 
According to the latest Copernicus Ocean State Report, 120 scientific experts from over 30 European institutes have reported that sea ice extent in the Arctic has declined to a record low level over the past two years. 
Arctic ice levels per decade have dropped by nearly 13 percent on average since 1979 to 2020, and the average sea ice thickness in the Barents Sea has reduced by 90 percent. 
The experts have concluded that the warming of the Arctic Ocean is contributing to an estimated near 4 percent of the entire global ocean warming. A dramatic decrease in sea ice import from the polar basin could accelerate this process, which has already led to extreme flooding and changes in the species diversity of marine biota. 
The scientists cited four consecutive record flooding events in Venice (November 2019), and higher-than-average wave heights in the southern Mediterranean (in 2019). In the North Sea, extreme variability from cold spells and marine heatwaves has been linked to reported changes in the catches of sole, European lobster, sea bass, red mullet, and edible crabs. 
Climate change, pollution, and overexploitation have placed unprecedented pressures on the ocean requiring the urgent need for sustainable measures for governance, adaptation, and management in order to secure the various life support roles the ocean offers for human well-being,” said report chair Karina von Schuckmann from Mercator Ocean International, who coordinated the survey. 
The scientists pointed out an unprecedented climate change impact on the ocean. Globally, average sea temperatures went up at a rate of 0.015 Celsius per year from 1993-2019, and there are also other downward trends. For example, oxygen levels (oxygen inventory) in the Black Sea dropped at a rate of -0.16 mol/m2/year from 1955–2019. 
Summarizing the international situation of the ocean, the scientists stated a need for ongoing improved development and provision of state-of-the art ocean knowledge and products. 
These tools and technologies, including alert systems, forecasting technologies, and real-time monitoring programs, help to protect marine environments and economic infrastructure, to develop adaptation measures, and to plan for and manage extreme ocean events,” Karina von Schuckmann said. 
New cartoon characters to speak the languages of Arctic peoples 
Five young Taimyr residents representing the Dolgans, Nenets, Enets, Nganasans and Evenki (peoples of the Arctic) took part in the voice acting of a cartoon in the languages ​​of indigenous peoples of the Arctic. Ten episodes of the cartoon will be released in 15 languages. 
Only those living on the peninsula who speak their native languages ​​perfectly were invited to participate in the project. 
We didn’t know that tale; we watched it in Russian. We had the video and imagined how to speak, with what intonation, how to hold pauses,” said Anna Spiridonova, a participant in the Children of the Arctic project and a native speaker of the Dolgan language. 
The project aims to help preserve the culture of Arctic ethnic groups. As part of this initiative, Russia is going to launch an internet portal to publish information about the life of 15 indigenous peoples of the North of Russia and the preservation of the native languages​​of the Arctic peoples. The project also received support in Finland and Canada. 
There are plans to record language training videos for the indigenous peoples, create a series of video reports about the life of these peoples and the regions where they live, and release children’s fairy tales in audio format. 
First Arctic carbon monitoring site opens in Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area 
The Arctic’s first carbon monitoring site will appear near the town of Labytnangi and the Obskaya station in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area. 
The project was unanimously supported at the meeting of the expert council chaired by Minister of Science and Higher Education Valery Falkov. Participants in the meeting discussed the further expansion of carbon monitoring sites, a pilot project of the Ministry of Science and Higher Education to create Russia’s integrated system for analyzing the movement of greenhouse gases. The first such site in the Arctic will be located in the area adjacent to the 198.6-meter-high radar station tower near Labytnangi and the Obskaya station,” the regional governor’s press service said. 
Yamal Governor Dmitry Artyukhov said that the green agenda, including reducing the carbon footprint, is becoming a key priority for the world. 
The decisions in this area will determine the further development of all countries. Russia is developing a national greenhouse gas monitoring system. I appreciate the decision to locate the carbon monitoring site in Yamal. Our area’s unique features will provide new opportunities for climate research,” Artyukhov said. 
The climate active gases monitoring will cover the ecosystems of forest tundra, northern taiga, floodplains and marshlands in the lower reaches of the Ob River. 
The equipment at such a tall tower and the creation of a carbon monitoring site around it will allow scientists to record the carbon flows in an area of hundreds of square kilometers, including flows from urban areas: Obskaya station, and the towns of Labytnangi and Salekhard. 
The location of the monitoring site on the northern edge of the forest and at the same time on the southern edge of the permafrost provides good opportunities for managing the ecosystem-produced flows of greenhouse gases, including afforesting the tundra, regulating the water level in peatbogs, limiting the impact of off-road vehicles and reindeer pastures, and managing the permafrost condition,” said Gleb Krayev, project head and leading research fellow at the Arctic Research Center. 
Chekunkov to chair FEDC Board of Directors 
Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov will chair the Board of Directors at the Far East Development Corporation (FEDC), following a decision passed at a board meeting. 
Earlier, First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Gadzhimagomed Guseinov held the position. 
The Far East Development Corporation is an integrated development institution under the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. The FEDC attracts investment using state support mechanisms that have been created in the Far East and the Arctic and helps businesses implement industrial and infrastructure projects aiming to accelerate economic development and to improve the quality of people’s lives. 
Today, the FEDC helps implement over 2,600 Far Eastern projects worth 6.3 trillion rubles. An additional 219 investment projects costing 370 billion rubles are under way in the Russian Arctic and in the Capital of the Arctic priority development area. Over 14,000 jobs are also being created. 
The government sets aside two billion rubles for the North Pole platform project 
The government of Russia has allocated over two billion rubles for completing the North Pole platform, due to start operating in the Arctic, next year. This total sum will also make it possible to conduct the platform’s mooring tests and trial runs. 
Roshydromet is to get over 2.1 billion rubles for completing the North Pole platform, due to navigate the Arctic. The funding will be allocated in 2021 and 2022. Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has already signed the relevant directive,” the government’s press service said in a statement. 
Under this plan, the self-propelled platform will either be deployed on ice-floes, or it will navigate open stretches of water. This will make it possible to resume long-duration expeditions that were suspended in the early 2000s, due to climate change. 
The entire platform will be over 83 meters long. These dimensions will make it possible to increase the platform’s complement and to accommodate more equipment than traditional drifting stations. It will be used to conduct scientific research which is important for understanding global climate change processes and for drafting and implementing Arctic development plans and those to facilitate the Northern Sea Route operations. The platform’s design also stipulates a helipad,” the government’s press service added. 
Eight national border services to discuss mutual cooperation in Kamchatka 
On October 5-8, a meeting of experts from the Arctic Coast Guard Forum will take place in Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky. Representatives of eight Arctic states, namely, Denmark, Iceland, Canada, Norway, Russia, the United States, Finland and Sweden, will attend the event. 
According to a press release from the Russian Federal Security Service’s Border Directorate for the Eastern Arctic Region, members of the Arctic Coast Guard Forum aim to strengthen multilateral cooperation and interaction within Arctic high-seas areas and to accomplish a number of tasks. 
These tasks include navigation safety, protection of the marine environment, emergency responses and efforts to maintain the Arctic region’s sustainable development,” the press release noted. 
Earlier, Kamchatka hosted an event involving Russian border guards and representatives of the US Coast Guard 17th District located in Alaska. They discussed cooperation matters. 
Finnish Foreign Ministry: Cooperation in the Arctic will promote constructive dialogue with Russia 
Finnish Ambassador for Arctic and Antarctic Affairs Petteri Vuorimaki believes that the program of the Russian presidency in the Arctic Council is probably the most ambitious one in its history. Importantly, cooperation in the Arctic opens up opportunities for constructive interaction with Moscow. The politician made this statement at the Washington-based Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. 
At present, the Russian Federation chairs the Council, and this program is likely to be the most intensive and ambitious in its entire history. If I were to take part in all planned events, I would have to move to Moscow or some other place in Russia. It has planned an incredible number of events,” he noted. 
I keep saying that cooperation in the Arctic opens up opportunities for constructive cooperation with the largest Arctic country, the Russian Federation, despite difficulties in other areas,” Vuorimaki said. 
The Arctic Council is an inter-governmental organization of the Arctic states: Denmark (with Greenland and the Faroe Islands), Iceland, Canada, Norway, Russia, the United States, Finland and Sweden. In 2021, the year of the Council’s 25th anniversary, Russia took over the two-year presidency from Iceland. 
Roshydromet: two-thirds of the Arctic seas remain ice-free in summer 
The time when unassisted navigation is possible on the Northern Sea Route has increased by three to four weeks. Two-thirds of the Arctic seas remain ice-free in summer, so ships have more route options, as more and more polar seas remain completely iceless. 
According to climate models, the Northern Sea Route (NSR) will be completely cleared of ice, which means navigation along it will become year-round and will not require icebreaker assistance by 2050. Roshydromet climate monitoring service explained how the situation on the NSR has changed since the last century. 
All this taken together (the observed changes - ed.) suggests an improvement of ice conditions in the seas along the NSR in summer and a significant extension of the favorable (ice-free) navigation period by an average of 30 to 40 days,” Roshydromet reported. 
The agency added that the changes typically include an increase in the intensity and a shift in the timing of the ice clearing early in the last decade compared to the 1970s and 1980s. The coastal and central regions of the seas now become completely clear 20-25 days earlier. 
The experts also note greater ice-free areas in summer. In the 1970s and 1980s, the open-water area comprised one-third of ​​the Arctic seas at best, but in the last decade, two-thirds of the total water surface has been ice-free in summer. This means ships can use almost all of their standard routes (coastal, central and seaward). On average, this becomes possible at the end of July in the Kara and Laptev Seas; in mid-August in the East Siberian Sea; and in early July in the southwestern part of the Chukchi Sea. 
Climate specialists have also clarified that complete clearing of sea ice has become a recurrent event and usually occurs in early September. The rate of recurrence of complete clearing of ice is 90 percent in the Kara and Chukchi Seas, 75 percent in the Laptev Sea, and 60 percent in the East Siberian Sea. 
The later onset of the fall and winter ice processes is an important feature, which is due to the new type of ice formation and the occurrence of young sea ice. In the fall, ice processes now occur about 10-20 days later than the long-run annual average,” Roshydromet added. 
However, the agency noted, despite the easy ice conditions, ice problems may still arise locally along the NSR route. This happens because of the heterogeneous distribution of the ice cover and the dependence of its position on hydrometeorological conditions (wind, temperature, drift, etc.) every year. Close ice, ice patches, and heavy ice tongues that impede navigation may persist. Such problems are usually observed in the Vilkitsky Strait and while approaching it, and in the eastern part of the East Siberian Sea (in the vicinity of the Ayonsky ice massif) where the Nina Sagaidak freighter was crushed and sank in 1983. 
Trutnev discusses implementation of Arctic development strategy 
By 2024, the Northern Sea Route’s ports will be handling a total of 85 million metric tons of freight, according to Deputy Prime Minister Yury Trutnev. 
He explained that the Northern Sea Route had 18 ports. Three of them, namely, Pevek, Murmansk and Arkhangelsk, are being upgraded, and four more will be overhauled by 2024. Work is underway to build the Yenisei terminal, the Sever Harbor port and the Utrenny terminal at the port of Sabetta. Once they start operating by 2024, the Northern Sea Route’s ports will be shipping a total of 85 million metric tons of freight,” the deputy prime minister noted, while reporting on the implementation of the Arctic development strategy at the Federation Council. 
Trutnev added that five nuclear-powered icebreakers were currently escorting ships in the Arctic Ocean. Four more Project 22220 icebreakers will enter service by 2026, and the first Lider-class icebreaker will start operating by 2027. There are also plans to compile a request for proposal (RFP) for the design and construction of four LNG icebreakers. 
He noted that the ice class cargo fleet will expand more than three-fold by 2030. It is necessary to build over 30 tankers, 40 bulk carriers and 22 container ships,” he added. 
According to the deputy prime minister, three radar satellites will be launched by 2025 under the national space program for monitoring the ice situation. One meteorological monitoring satellite and four more spacecraft that will provide Arctic users with satellite communications and online access will also be orbited. One weather satellite is already circling the planet. 
The development of rescue systems and those for assisting vessels along the entire transport corridor has major significance for ensuring reliable and safe navigation. For this purpose, rescue stations will be established in Pevek, the port of Sabetta and the towns of Dikson and Tiksi, and the required aircraft will be purchased. The government has allocated 37 billion rubles for these purposes until 2026. Our main task is to provide the required assistance at any point of the route,” Trutnev said. 
Sea-bottom relief data is also needed for safe navigation. There are plans to chart sea-bottom relief sections measuring 430,000 kilometers until 2025,” the deputy prime minister added. 
Ground freight transportation must be provided for the effective use of the Northern Sea Route. 
The development of the Murmansk transport hub and the implementation of the Northern Latitudinal Railway One and Two projects will make it possible to merge the Northern Sea Route’s ports with Russia’s railway network. 
The launching of regular container traffic in 2022 will become a new stage in developing the Northern Sea Route. This will make it possible to deliver fish and related products from Russia’s Far East to European Russia. Year-round high-latitude navigation is set to commence between 2023 and 2024. 
Trutnev noted that the development of the Northern Sea Route was a basic pre-condition for implementing most Arctic projects. The Northern Sea Route allows for delivering the required materials and structures for projects under construction, and transporting raw materials and ready-made products. In effect, this is what makes the Russian North a single whole. Our strategic long-term task is to set up a new global transport corridor on the basis of the Northern Sea Route,” he said. 
Speaking of competition with the Suez Canal, it should be noted that the Northern Sea Route is 40 percent shorter. At the same time, it handles 33 million metric tons of freight annually, with the Suez Canal shipping over one million metric tons per year. However, the Northern Sea Route’s traffic volumes are expanding steadily. We have to accomplish a lot in order to be able to compete with the Suez Canal. It is necessary to build icebreakers, to improve the transport infrastructure, to provide satellite communications, online access and weather forecasts, to detect ice formations using radar, to set up a rescue system and to build an Arctic fleet. Efforts to improve the quality of people’s lives in communities along the Northern Sea Route are an important task,” Trutnev noted. 
In his report, Trutnev also added that Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship will make it possible to formalize its status as a leading Arctic power. 
Our Arctic Council status will allow Russia to formalize its positions as a leading Arctic power. We are seeing substantial competition in this direction. < … > It is necessary to be proactive and to consolidate our positions, so that Russia would continue to permanently control its Arctic areas,” he said. 
International Arctic Forum to be held in St. Petersburg on April 11-13 
Deputy Prime Minister and Presidential Plenipotentiary Envoy to the Far Eastern Federal District Yury Trutnev said that St. Petersburg would host the International Arctic Forum on April 11-13, 2022. 
The International Arctic Forum will be held in St. Petersburg on April 11-13, 2022. According to the plans, President of Russia Vladimir Putin will attend the forum,” he said. 
The biennial The Arctic: Territory of Dialogue Forum was to take place in 2021, but was postponed until 2022 due to the difficult epidemiological situation. Today the information on the event schedule has been confirmed by an official source. 
As usual, the participants in the forum will focus on improving the living standards in the Arctic region, preserving its unique ecological potential, ensuring sustainable socioeconomic development in polar territories, and strengthening international cooperation to this end. 
For us in our current capacity as the chair of the Arctic Council, the forum is of particular practical importance in addressing the key issues pertaining to the Arctic territories. The IAF is a unique space for constructive cooperation with international and regional organizations and an opportunity to focus on Russian and international priorities, including climate change, the environment, economic cooperation in the Arctic, sustainable development of transport infrastructure, and human capital development. Russia intends to ensure the sustainable development of the Arctic region and to preserve its social, economic and natural balance,” Presidential Adviser and Executive Secretary of the IAF Organizing Committee Anton Kobyakov said earlier. 
Tours devoted to the Arctic launched in St. Petersburg 
A series of tours and expeditions devoted to the role of St. Petersburg in Arctic exploration was launched in the city in 2021. The first expedition was dedicated to the exploration of the Arctic, the second to the Great Patriotic War in the northern latitudes and the third to the heroic Arctic explorers. The fourth tour featured the St. Petersburg shipyards that build ice-class vessels. The fifth one is called Kronstadt: The Cradle of Arctic Expeditions. 
Starting next year, these tours will be available to all St. Petersburg residents and tourists on a regular basis. 
St. Petersburg has always been the starting point for Arctic research and exploration. Over 200 research and educational organizations in the city, as well as high-tech enterprises that develop technology and equipment for working in the Arctic, are currently engaged in Arctic research. Our shipyards build powerful icebreakers and floating power units for the Arctic seas, as well as passenger vessels for northern rivers,” said St. Petersburg Governor Alexander Beglov. 
He added that Russia’s northern capital is home to the leading educational centers that train skilled professionals for the Arctic. 
There are over 60 sites in St. Petersburg that are related to the history of Arctic achievements and victories in the northern regions. Among them are streets, monuments, museums, research and production facilities. They provided the basis for the Arctic St. Petersburg tours. 
In 2020, the Arctic Guide to St. Petersburg, featuring the city’s Arctic addresses,” was compiled and published. The guide continues to be updated because the banks of the Neva River were the starting point for many legendary expeditions by prominent scientists and explorers who put on the map almost the entire Arctic coast of Russia. Famous polar explorers studied and wrote their best research papers here. The Arctic tours include visits to such historical landmarks as the Krasin icebreaker, the Museum of the Arctic and Antarctic, and the Memorial Museum of the Northern Convoys. 
St. Petersburg also is carrying out a project to develop the city as an Arctic tourist hub and receive the status of a starting point for tours to the Arctic region of Russia. 
Coast guards of eight Arctic countries discuss expanding border cooperation 
Representatives from Denmark, Iceland, Canada, Norway, Russia, the United States, Finland and Sweden, participants in the Arctic Coast Guard Forum (ACGF), discussed sea rescue and marine pollution. 
Currently, the forum prioritizes cooperation in carrying out search-and-rescue operations at sea as well as in responding to marine pollution,” the press service of the Russian Federal Security Service for the eastern Arctic region emphasized in a statement. 
At the forum, the participating states discussed expanding border cooperation, including detecting, preventing and responding to violations of legal regimes in sea areas. They also touched on the problem of countering threats to maritime security. 
The Arctic Coast Guard Forum was established on October 30, 2015, in New London, Connecticut, USA, at the meeting of the coast guard leaders from the Arctic Council member states. Chairmanship duties of the ACGF rotate every two years. Russia received the chairmanship from Iceland in April 2021. 
Forum Arctic: Today and the Future to be held in December 2021 in St. Petersburg 
The 11th International forum Arctic: Today and the Future will be held on December 2-4, 2021 in St. Petersburg. At this annual event, various representatives of authorities, businesses and the public will summarize the Arctic agenda and join efforts to determine the main vectors for the development of the Arctic zone. The agenda was developed in accordance with the goals and areas of the Foundations of Russia’s State Policy in the Arctic up to 2035. 
The forum will be attended by representatives of regional authorities, systemic companies, financial and service enterprises, scientific, educational and public organizations, as well as representatives of SMEs, plus technology developers and manufacturers. 
The 2021 business program includes nine thematic topics. Two plenary meetings, 40 panel and working sessions, round tables will be held, which will focus on current changes in the Arctic legislation; development of the social and economic spheres; exploration, extraction and processing of minerals; development of infrastructure, industry and transport capacity; environmental protection and elimination of accumulated environmental damage; international cooperation; development of science, education and technology; ensuring comprehensive security; features of regional development and other issues. 
Simultaneously with the business program, there will be an exhibition, presenting Arctic projects and modern technologies. 
The Forum is traditionally held with the support and participation of the Federation Council and the State Duma of the Federal Assembly of the Russian Federation, the Government of the Russian Federation, the Security Council of the Russian Federation, the Ministry of Industry and Trade, the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic, the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Health, as well as other relevant federal authorities. 
Rare bird species seen again in Russian Arctic National Park 
This year’s field season in the national park started earlier than usual, which made it possible for scientists to carry out all the necessary observations throughout the entire summer period in the Arctic. 
Research expeditions worked in Russian Arctic National Park in two stages: between June 1 and June 30, and between August 13 and September 9. The first observations came in early June with information on spring events in the life of Arctic birds. 
We have received rare data, which, of course, have expanded our scientific knowledge about the protected area,” said Alexander Kirilov, director of Russian Arctic National Park. 
In June, members of the Arctic Floating University took pictures of a bean goose at the northern tip of Novaya Zemlya (southern cluster of the protected area), near Cape Zhelaniya. This was the first sighting of the waterfowl species in the north of Novaya Zemlya in the national park’s history. 
In fact, there were sightings of such waterfowl as the tundra swan, greater white-fronted goose, pink-footed goose, bean goose, brant, common eider, king eider, mallard, pintail, common merganser, and long-tailed duck in Russian Arctic National Park. Seeing them in the tundra is always exciting and unforgettable. However, a bean goose was photographed for the first time, thanks to hunting supervisor Pavel Futoran. 
In the early summer, employees of the protected area recorded several bird species which are rarely seen in the second half of the summer. For example, we saw several kinds of waders, whose status is a little unclear for our areas, as well as brants, which caught the attention of specialists due to their endangered status. This is a good addition to Novaya Zemlya’s avifauna,” said Ivan Mizin, deputy director for research. 
Every year, biologists from Russian Arctic National Park see birds whose presence in polar latitudes is a mystery. For example, in 2020 polar explorers spotted three swallows hunting for insects over the freshwater Lake Otradnoye on Cape Zhelaniya. In 2015 and 2020, they recorded swans in the southern sector of the protected area. On Franz Josef Land, polar explorers saw a mallard, which accidentally flew into the land of eternal ice. In 2018, employees of Russian Arctic National Park caught sight of a hooded crow on Cape Zhelaniya. They saw it again this year. 
Recently, before arriving at Cape Zhelaniya, researchers spotted a hooded crow alongside the Mikhail Somov research vessel. It flew away towards Novaya Zemlya. All kinds of birds, from small passerines to birds of prey, can travel to the Arctic aboard sea ships. Seagulls and polar owls often use this means of transport to cover large distances and save energy,” said Ivan Mizin, deputy director for research. 
Unfortunately, not all birds who travel far away from their natural habitat can return. 
For example, corvids are omnivorous, and their main way of getting food in our region will be to destroy other birds’ nests. The pressure on nesting birds such as the common eider will increase. Therefore, we would not like to see crows more frequently,” Ivan Mizin said in sum. 
Government simplifies Arctic zone resident status regulations for small businesses 
The Government of Russia has simplified regulations for obtaining Arctic zone resident status by small businesses. 
Small businesses will find it easier to obtain the status of Arctic zone residents following the approval of a list of activities not covered by real-estate investment requirements. Prime Minister Mikhail Mishustin has signed the relevant directive,” the Government’s press service said. 
Resident companies will be eligible for numerous privileges, including reduced tax and insurance premiums rates, more lenient land-plot lease plans, cheap loans and a free customs zone. 
Earlier, each organization applying for Arctic resident status pledged to invest in the renovation or construction of real-estate properties. From now on, certain activities will be exempted from this,” the press release noted. 
The document lists 58 such activities, including livestock-breeding, forest-planting and metal-working projects, manufacture of furniture, clothing, paper and leather items, publishing activities, waste collection, disposal and recycling, educational and healthcare services. 
The decision is expected to simplify small businesses’ Arctic operations and will serve as an additional driver of socioeconomic development in Russia’s polar regions. 
Sustainable Development Working Group to hold meeting in Moscow 
On October 26–28 the Arctic Council’s Sustainable Development Working Group (SDWG) will meet in Moscow to discuss its projects and upcoming schedule. The Roscongress Foundation hosts all the events during Russia’s Arctic Council chairmanship. 
The meeting participants will discuss progress on current projects and proposals for new ones. The issues include: greater ecosystem stability in the Arctic; conservation of the Arctic’s architectural heritage; evaluation of the COVID-19 situation in the Arctic and its impact on public health; digitization of the linguistic and cultural heritage of the indigenous peoples of the Arctic; development of the Arctic food innovations cluster; remote power systems; hydrogen economy in the Arctic; solid waste utilization in the Arctic communities; pre-school and school education; gender equality as well as the project of the World Mammoth Center in Yakutia. 
This is the second SDWG meeting during Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council in 2021–2023. The SDWG session traditionally brings together the Arctic Council member states (Denmark, Iceland, Canada, Norway, Russia, the United States, Sweden and Finland) and observer organizations: Arctic Athabaskan Council, Aleut International Association, Gwich'in Council International, Inuit Circumpolar Council and the Russian Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North. 
Norwegian Prime Minister criticizes European Commission’s calls to ban Arctic oil and gas projects 
The new Prime Minister of Norway, Jonas Gahr Støre, criticized the European Commission’s proposal to ban oil and gas projects in the Arctic. 
Resolutions from continental Europe call for stopping any activity above the Arctic Circle, but this will not work here,” Støre told The Financial Times. 
Norway has the rights and duties to care for its economic zone and the activities in this region. 
If Norway, the largest European gas supplier after Russia, left the sector and the business in the next few years, it would be difficult for continental Europe to achieve its green goals. It would also stop Norway’s successful industrial transition to zero-carbon; this is why we are moving toward development and transition, rather than shutting down the industry, he added.” 
Støre added that Norway’s Government Pension Fund Global, whose assets are estimated at almost $1.4 trillion and which is funded through oil sale revenues, is also to contribute to this process. He said the management of Government Pension Fund Global should reflect Norway’s goals and values. 
The European Commission has proposed a worldwide ban on Arctic hydrocarbon production but supports production of mineral resources by EU countries, provided they comply with higher environmental standards. Virginijus Sinkevicius, the European Commission’s Commissioner for Environment, Oceans and Fisheries, noted that, under the EU’s Arctic strategy, coal, oil and gas should remain underground in the Arctic. The European Commission advocates a global moratorium on extracting these resources. According to Sinkevicius, this region has special significance in the context of global warming because temperatures are rising three times faster there, on the average, than global temperatures. This is caused by melting ice formations that, in turn, expedite the global warming process. 
Norwegian Foreign Ministry: Barents region cooperation important for peace 
Speaking at the 18th Ministerial Meeting of the Barents Euro-Arctic Council (BEAC), Norwegian Minister of Foreign Affairs Anniken Huitfeldt stressed that cooperation in the Barents Euro-Arctic region is an important peace project for Norway. 
She noted that cooperation in the Barents region is used to create cross-border links in the Arctic, which is Norway’s top priority when it comes to maintaining peace. 
The minister added that there are, however, several reasons for concerns, specifically the fact that climate change has a significant impact on those who live in the Arctic. She said that Finland, which is assuming the BEAC chairmanship, has taken up the leading role in updating the climate change action plan. 
According to the Norwegian foreign minister, this kind of joint effort inspires optimism. She also noted the importance of facilitating contact between people, reminding that the people living there are the most valuable asset. 
The minister expressed hope that the new BEAC financial mechanism, which has been in development pursuant to Russia’s initiative, will be of great benefit to the organization. The mechanism to be launched in 2022 will provide funds to support trans-border projects. 
Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov also gave remarks during the ministerial meeting. He noted that, during its chairmanship in the Barents Euro-Arctic Council and the Council of the Baltic Sea States in 2023–2025, Russia plans to focus on improving the quality of life in the north. 
We suggest to contemplate large-scale crosscutting initiatives. In two years, Russia will be on the captain’s bridge in two regional organizations at once, the Barents Euro-Arctic Council and the Council of the Baltic Sea States,” Lavrov said. 
He added that Russia would also focus on increasing the significance of the practical activity of both councils, their orientation toward specific projects geared at socioeconomic development, and a higher quality of life in the shared north. 
We intend to act in the spirit of continuity and support the priorities of the above formats,” the foreign minister said. 
He noted that this session is an important step towards stronger cooperation in the European Arctic. 
In the next few years, hopefully, Barents cooperation will not only retain its dynamics but will be further developed as an important factor in helping to preserve this zone of trust, stability and neighborliness in the north of Europe,” the Russian minister said. 
Researchers discuss the use of innovative technology to restore the polluted Arctic coast 
An international conference on bioremediation (the biological purification) of aquatic and land ecosystems of the Arctic coast was held in Moscow. It was attended by leading researchers from Russia, Canada, the United States and Finland who specialize in the remediation of contaminated soil and water bodies. The discussion was held as part of Russia’s plan of the main activities as the chair country of the Arctic Council in 2021-2023. 
Russia boasts a strong research community in bioremediation, which has a positive experience of interaction with researchers from Norway, the United States and Canada, and we need to continue to work as a team,” said Pavel Krasilnikov, a corresponding member of the Russian Academy of Sciences, Doctor of Biological Sciences and acting dean of Moscow State University’s Department of Soil Science. 
The path from scientific development project to practical implementation is often arduous. Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council can help authorities and businesses pay attention to research results that are designed to promote the restoration of northern nature,” Krasilnikov added. 
The experts presented their experience in research and the practical application of bioremediation technologies for restoring nature in the Arctic. They noted the effectiveness of biological methods as part of an integrated approach to cleaning contaminated areas. 
Biological treatment methods are highly effective in the Arctic given the increasingly intensive development of the region, including growing hydrocarbon production, cargo traffic and population,” said Mikhail Makarov, Doctor of Biological Sciences, acting director of the Murmansk Marine Biological Institute of the Russian Academy of Sciences. In addition to being used to mitigate the aftereffects of emergencies, they can also be used for prevention and early detection of vulnerable areas.” 
The participants also discussed the prospects for international scientific cooperation. In particular, they mentioned a joint project by researchers from Murmansk, Norway and Finland on creating innovative biotechnology for the comprehensive restoration of the oil-polluted Arctic coast as part of the Kolarctic cross border cooperation program. 
We see great potential in studying the effects of microorganisms on the decomposition of petroleum products,” Kirsten Jorgensen from the Finnish Environment Institute said. These methods are particularly effective after a contaminated area has been mechanically cleaned or when other cleaning methods are not a practicable solution.” 
The results of the practical use of bioremediation methods were presented. Graeme Spiers, Professor Emeritus of Environmental Geoscience at Laurentian University (Ontario, Canada) reported on soil reclamation and the reforestation of former industrial and mining sites in Canada. 
Attendees noted that implementing bioremediation projects plays an important role in improving environmental safety in the Arctic. The importance of scaling up these methods based on their safety and manufacturability was highlighted. 
President of Russia estimates Yamal gas reserves 
Gas reserves in Yamal exceed 50 trillion cubic meters, and gas production at the Bovanenkovo gas field can continue for another 100 years or more. The deposit also serves as a test ground for innovative technology concepts. 
Importantly, the Yamal gas production center is playing a key role in developing Russia’s gas industry in the 21st century. Gazprom’s gas reserves alone exceed 20 trillion cubic meters. Total gas reserves in the Yamalo-Nenets Autonomous Area are over 50 trillion cubic meters,” President Vladimir Putin said at a meeting on developing the Yamal Peninsula’s resource potential. 
He added that large-scale projects are being implemented successfully on the Yamal Peninsula, including the largest field, Bovanenkovo. Gas will be produced here for many decades, for 100 years, maybe even longer,” said the president. 
According to President Putin, the efficiency of the technology used can be seen in the commissioning of new wells and the Bovanenkovo-Ukhta 2 gas pipeline. 
In addition, with our foreign partners, projects for LNG production have been launched in Yamal. The Yamal LNG plant with a capacity of 19 million tons per year is operational; Arctic LNG 2, which will annually produce almost 20 million tons of LNG, is under construction,” President Putin pointed out. 
He also recalled that the Arctic seaport of Sabetta had been built from the ground up to service these centers. 
These and other projects to develop the Russian Arctic will make it possible to meet demand on the domestic and international markets for the long term, and will make a large contribution to ensuring Eurasian energy security,” summed up the president. 
Russian meteorologists get new Arctic equipment 
A prototype of a Russian-made universal meteorological station for monitoring the climate in the Arctic has successfully passed field testing. The work was conducted throughout the year in the Extreme North in the Tomsk Region. The next stage is the development of technology for their industrial production. 
In 2018, scientists of the Institute of Monitoring of Climatic and Ecological Systems of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences together with Sibanalitpribor started designing the first Russian meteorological station which would be able to measure wind speed and direction, air temperature and humidity, atmospheric pressure, as well as intensity, amount, types of precipitation, solar radiation intensity and snow depth using acoustical, optical and radiation methods in Arctic conditions. At the same time, unlike existing stations, this one must operate completely independent of humans for a year, use solar energy to charge its batteries and maintain protection against Arctic animals. The prototype was ready in 2020, after which field testing began. 
A year ago field testing of the prototype began at our institute. The tests are now over, we have positive results and protocols. The prototype has confirmed all the specifications that we had outlined. We have received information about defects,” said Vladimir Korolkov, deputy director of the Institute of Monitoring of Climatic and Ecological Systems of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. 
Korolkov explained that scientists were now getting ready to start the next stage of work: development of a commercial prototype and technology for industrial production of the station. Talks are underway with potential investors, funds are being raised to enter the market. 
Previously, Korolkov said people working at Russian meteorological stations still carried out all measurements by hand and sent this information to processing centers every three hours. It is unprofitable to purchase foreign unmanned meteorological stations due to their high cost. They also require expensive maintenance, have limited functionality and are not protected from animals. 
In addition, the ceremony to launch a new modular office and residential building and diesel room was held at the Malye Karmakuly upper-air station of Roshydromet’s Northern Office of Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring, Novaya Zemlya Archipelago. It was built as part of the Environmental Protection state program and will start the upgrade and development of a hydrometeorological network for monitoring the environment in the Russian Arctic. 
The opening of new monitoring and information processing systems will make it possible to change the working and living conditions of workers, while reducing the station’s power consumption and financial costs,” the statement of the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment reads. 
The new complex meets all the working and living requirements associated with the difficult conditions of the North. The module is a one-story building covering 268.88 square meters in total, combining work and living quarters. The office has a modular diesel power station. Equipment installed on the roof supports sea and meteorological monitoring. The living quarters have furnishings and kitchen equipment, as well as forced ventilation and water purification systems. All the advanced solutions of the new complex serve to improve the quality and quantity of hydrometeorological information, automate the collection and transmission of information, and create a new infrastructure for comfortable living and work at remote stations. 
The unmanned meteorological station at the Malye Karmakuly upper-air station has also been upgraded as part of the Upgrading and Technical Re-Equipment of Roshydromet Institutions and Organizations 2 project. Additional sensors were used to automate the monitoring of precipitation, meteorological visibility, duration of sunshine, and actinometric observations. A new atmospheric radiosonde base station, Polyus-M, has been built. 
Conference to attract personnel to the Arctic to be held in Arkhangelsk 
On November 15–16, the Mikhail Lomonosov Northern (Arctic) Federal University in Arkhangelsk will host an online conference on recruiting new employees to work in the Arctic. The event will be attended by officials, members of the business community, and experts from Russia and other Arctic Council countries. 
The conference will focus on government efforts to recruit a workforce to the Arctic, including policies on employment, personnel needs in the Arctic regions, the forecasting of personnel requirements, preferences and support programs for residents there, retraining and employment programs, Arctic recruitment, and the impact of the digital transformation on employment in the Arctic regions. 
Other themes for discussion include: 
- Personnel requirements for Arctic investment projects, specialties in high demand 
- Northern recruiting” specifics 
- The Northern Sea Route: Limits and potential 
- Personnel needs in the social sphere in the Arctic 
- The state of the education system for the indigenous peoples and their education requirements 
- Training a new generation of Arctic explorers. 
The National Arctic Scientific and Educational Consortium will meet on the sidelines of the conference. 
Arkhangelsk to host one of the largest IT parks in the Arctic 
One of the largest IT parks in Arctic Russia will open in Arkhangelsk next year to train digital economy professionals. 
Arkhangelsk Region Governor Alexander Tsibulsky wrote on social media that the park would open in September 2022 at the Northern (Arctic) Federal University (NArFU). This cutting-edge center with a floor space of over 10,000 square meters will have workshop rooms, labs, themed rooms for design projects, an information security center, a museum and a coworking space. 
Alexander Tsibulsky noted that Digital Arctic would have modern equipment for projects in the fields of telemedicine, intelligent data analysis, and the use of artificial intelligence in manufacturing and other industries. 
But the park’s main mission is to train skilled personnel for the digital economy, network with IT leaders, companies and consortiums, and digitally transform the basic processes at NArFU,” the governor said. 
The Arkhangelsk-based IT park, one of the largest in Arctic Russia, will be located in the building of the former headquarters of the 10th Air Defense Army on the Northern Dvina Embankment. 
The park’s personnel will create and promote new developments in the fields of telemedicine, intelligent data analysis, the use of artificial intelligence in manufacturing and other industries, and advanced personnel training. 
The establishment of the Digital Arctic IT Park has been added to NArFU’s development program until 2035. 
Government approves list of regions of the Far North and equivalent status territories 
The Russian Government has approved a list of regions of the Far North and equivalent status territories. The list includes parts of the republics of Altai, Buryatia, Karelia, Komi and Tyva, Trans-Baikal, Krasnoyarsk, Khabarovsk, Perm and Primorye territories, Amur, Arkhangelsk, Irkutsk, Sakhalin, Tomsk, Tyumen regions and the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Area. It also includes Yakutia, Magadan and Murmansk regions, Nenets, Chukotka and Yamalo-Nenets autonomous areas as well as the Kamchatka Territory in full. 
The list of regions of the Far North was compiled in 1992–1994, and amended later on numerous occasions. Its new version has a clearer structure and conforms to the current territorial and municipal division of the country,” a statement posted on the government’s official Telegram channel says. 
The document states that the residents of all localities covered by the previous versions of the list will keep the benefits, government guarantees and compensations for which they are eligible. 
Yakutia to set up mammoth consortium for studying prehistoric animals 
Yakutia has plans to set up a consortium of Russian and foreign researchers specializing in mammoth studies. These specialists will also study prehistoric fauna. The new consortium will support research projects of the World Mammoth Center, also being set up in the republic. 
Yakutia is the global leader in terms of surviving remains of mammoth fauna and is home to 90 percent of these finds. The entire republic is also covered with permafrost reaching up to 800 meters beneath the ground. The unique permafrost environment makes it possible to find well-preserved paleontological objects. Up to 120 metric tons of mammoth tusks are unearthed in the republic each year. 
In June 2022, Yakutsk will host the International Mammoth Forum, and its participants are expected to sign agreements on setting up a mammoth consortium in the republic. The consortium aims to consolidate and integrate the resources of research and education institutions that study mammoth fauna in order to create a single science and education platform for ensuring the sustainable development of Yakutia and the Russian Arctic. Yakut schools will collaborate with leading Russian and foreign research centers, and this will facilitate the research activities of the World Mammoth Center,” the republic’s head, Aisen Nikolayev, noted. 
The World Mammoth Center is being established to expand the planet’s biodiversity by reviving extinct biological species and creating more sophisticated ecosystems. The center will also aim to preserve the world’s cultural and scientific heritage. 
The World Mammoth Center will focus on systematizing the sector and cataloguing discoveries of mammoth fauna. This will make it possible to obtain new knowledge about the climate and the ecology of the late Pleistocene period, to construct ancient genomes, cellular tissue structures and biocenoses, and to raise public awareness of the Arctic. 
The center’s scientific concept sets forth a complete cycle, including efforts to locate fossils of mammoth fauna, to preserve them in their original form, to conduct comprehensive studies of mammoth remains, and to show them to broad audiences,” the head of the republic added. 
According to Nikolayev, there are plans to build five key facilities, including a cryogenic storage facility for mammoth fauna. It will be designed using the principles that local residents have applied through the ages. They take advantage of permafrost properties and long Yakut winters for storing food and building special ice vaults that do not melt even during the hottest summer months. 
The plans also include building a scientific laboratory complex that consists of three sectors, namely, a paleontology sector for traditional research, a sector for radiography and isotope research and radiocarbon dating whose experts will determine the migration routes of ancient animals, and a paleo-genomics sector for genetic research on ancient genomes, including work to refine cloning methods. 
This complex will serve as a foundation for implementing the World Mammoth Center’s ambitious goal of reviving the mammoth in this age of bioengineering,” he explained. 
The World Mammoth Center will also feature a museum and exhibition facility with an education center, which will make it possible to organize paleontology exhibitions, to study methods for preserving museum exhibits, and to conduct anatomic and morphological research, including that using interactive and multimedia technologies. 
Moscow hosts a meeting to discuss international scientific cooperation in the Arctic 
Moscow hosted a Senior Arctic Officials meeting to coordinate scientific research in the Arctic. The meeting was part of the Russian chairmanship of the Arctic Council. 
Russia’s chairmanship aims to improve the efficiency of research and the practical applicability of its results in the Arctic. We intend to optimize the use of the research infrastructure and promote advanced technology and best practices in implementing joint projects," stressed Nikolai Korchunov, the Russian Foreign Ministry’s Ambassador at Large and Chairman of the Senior Officials Committee of the Arctic Council. 
He said that the Snowflake International Arctic Station may become a platform for international cooperation at high latitudes in Yamal. The project for joint research on carbon-free energy was proposed by Russia at a meeting of the Arctic Council’s working group on sustainable development in 2019 and was supported by Arctic nations. 
The meeting participants discussed the need to determine common priorities in Arctic scientific studies, strengthen international research cooperation, and hold joint research competitions, as well as the possibility of setting up a coordination committee for scientific work in the Arctic and a common research database of the Arctic countries. 
The results of the discussion on Russia’s initiatives will be presented at the Arctic Council plenary meeting in Salekhard on December 1-2. 
Russian Arctic presents a course of Arctic Studies to teachers in the Arkhangelsk Region 
Secondary school teachers from Arkhangelsk, Severodvinsk, Novodvinsk, Kotlas, and Ustyany took part in a conference on the methodology of teaching the Arctic Studies course at schools in the region. The study program for first-to-fourth-year students and an accompanying manual has been drawn up by the Russian Arctic National Park‘s specialists The course has been taught at secondary schools in the Arkhangelsk Region as an auxiliary discipline since 2020. 
The teachers responded keenly to the conference. Many asked how they could visit the Arctic Mission Visitors Center, where artifacts brought from the Arctic are on display. Teachers were also glad to learn that the National Park had prepared numerous videos – lectures, clips, and films – posted on the Russian Arctic channel in YouTube,” National Park Director Alexander Kirilov said. 
Classes for teachers are part of career enhancement training offered by the Archangelsk Regional Open Education Institute. 
We have received a lot of new local history knowledge. We have also mastered specific skills and methods involved in teaching the Arctic Studies course. This discipline is a hot item at our school. Starting from next year, we will test the new methods on first-year students, who will learn the Arctic ABC,” Natalya Viricheva, who teaches at Secondary General Education School #2 in the city of Kotlas, said. 
At the end of 2021, the National Park will sum up the results of the implementation of the Arctic Studies project in the region’s schools. 
Arktika-M satellite scores brilliant results in orbit 
The Arktika-M spacecraft provides new opportunities for monitoring weather changes and the environment. From now on, it is possible to watch polar developments every 15 minutes. 
Russia has implemented a unique project for the first time in history. The Arktika-M satellite is a pioneering invention and provides unique data,” said Chief Designer Yury Gektin, who is in charge of Roscosmos’ Russian Space Systems division. 
All incoming data is processed using radiometric and geometric methods and a multi-zone scanner, as well as the company’s own computers and algorithms. Subsequent digital flows are then fed into the onboard data accumulation system and form an integral digital stream containing service data from the onboard control device and specialized data from the helio-physical equipment assembly. After that, all data is fed into the onboard radio-technical equipment assembly and subsequently relayed to ground-based data acquisition and processing centers. 
The satellite takes photos and videos for about six hours from altitudes ranging from 30,000 to 40,000 kilometers. 
Experts note that the Arktika-M provides more accurate Northern Sea Route navigation data, and that it can predict ice-formation movements with an accuracy of up to one kilometer. 
The spacecraft has also effectively tracked Siberian wildfires, and its data is used to analyze and predict fire hotspots. It can also monitor volcanoes in the Northern Hemisphere. 
The second Arktika-M satellite is now being readied for launch. According to Gektin, two more satellites will lift off some time later. 
Indigenous minorities of the North will find it easier to receive pensions 
A bill submitted to the State Duma suggests that the indigenous national minorities in the north will receive social pensions based on the information from the list of people belonging to these ethnicities of Russia. 
State Duma deputy in the eighth convocation, Yelena Yevtyukhova, noted that if the information on these people is not recorded in the Register of the Indigenous Minorities of the North, they will have to present documents that confirm they belong to the minorities of the north.” 
I would like to recall that in February 2020, the Federal Law on the Guarantees of the Rights of the Indigenous Minorities of the Russian Federation” was supplemented by the appendix on the accounting of the people who belong to these minorities,” Ms Yeftyukhova reported. 
Starting February 7, 2022, the bodies of state authority, local self-government and state extra-budget funds will use the information from the list of minorities with a view to ensuring the implementation of their rights. So they will not have to present a package of documents themselves to confirm their ethnicity. The authorized bodies will receive the required information through the interdepartmental communications system from the Federal Agency for Ethnic Affairs of Russia (FAEA). 
In Chukotka, the authorities are already including people belonging to indigenous minorities in the register that is designed to simplify the implementation of their rights and guarantees. In all, 1,130 applications for inclusion in the list were sent to the FAEA from Chukotka. 
About 140 permafrost thaw monitoring points to appear in the Arctic by 2025 
Over 40 percent of buildings and structures in the Arctic bear the signs of deformation due to the permafrost thaw in the cryolithic zone. There are plans to construct 140 monitoring points by 2025 to track changes in the permafrost. 
Permafrost degradation causes substantial losses in hydrocarbon production, technical accidents and road pavement damage,” said Deputy Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Sergei Anopriyenko. 
At a Federation Council meeting on the Clean Arctic public federal project, the official underscored that the permafrost thaw remained a pressing problem that affects the economic development of the Arctic. 
Anopriyenko reminded the meeting participants that his ministry and other parties concerned developed and submitted to the Government on September 30 a plan for creating a government system to monitor the permafrost condition based on the observation network of the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring. 
About 140 monitoring points will be established by 2025. This will help dramatically reduce and, in some cases, eliminate the risks arising from the development of the Arctic cryolithic zone in the medium- and long-term perspective,” he said. 
In addition, the construction of the North Pole ice-resistant self-propelled platform, a unique research vessel outfitted with state-of-the-art equipment, is nearing completion. According to the deputy minister, it opens up new opportunities for exploring hard-to-access regions of the Arctic. 
Arctic Ocean military research helps with Russia’s border demarcation 
The Russian Navy has completed a ten-year research project in the Arctic Ocean and its outlying seas conducted to determine and specify the baselines of Arctic islands. 
In 2021, our ten-year work ended with the signing of the Russian Government resolution approving a list of geographical coordinates of points determining the Russian Federation’s maritime border,” Vice Admiral Vladimir Kasatonov told delegates of the 11th Arctic: Today and the Future International Forum. 
The Russian Navy is currently editing the state high-seas navigation charts and maps showing the borders of the Russian Federation’s territorial seas and the baselines in the Arctic Ocean. 
The Vice Admiral also said that as a result of the Russian Navy’s Arctic research, over 40 new geographical objects were discovered and described. 
The Navy organized systematic works to specify the shoreline of the new geographical objects discovered in the Franz Josef Land and Novaya Zemlya archipelagos. In 2013-2019, the Navy conducted Arctic expeditions, including special studies, which led to the discovery of over 40 new geographical objects, including 14 islands and four islets, 15 capes, three straits and five harbors,” he said. 
According to Vice Admiral Kasatonov, some geographical objects in the Franz Josef Land and Novaya Zemlya archipelagos have already been named after prominent hydrographers. 
While researching the Arctic zone’s seas, specialists of the Russian Navy’s hydrographic services annually conduct measuring and sounding projects, as well as gravimetric surveying works, over a distance of 20,000 line kilometers. They also conduct research on standard hydrological sections and topographic and geodetic works to specify the coastal shoreline,” he added. 
Scientists: It will rain, not snow, in the Arctic 
Arctic precipitation patterns may change dramatically by 2060: the region will experience more rain than snowfalls. 
According to scientists from Canada’s University of Manitoba, if global temperatures rise by three degrees Celsius, the Arctic will almost forget about snowfalls. However, rain will prevail near Greenland and the Norwegian Sea even if global temperatures increase by 1.5 to 2 degrees. These changes can already be seen today. 
An article published in the Nature Communication journal says that it rained for the first time on the top of the huge Greenland ice-cap this past August. 
In their survey, the scientists used the latest climate models showing that a transition from snowfall to rain would happen decades faster than believed earlier. In the Central Arctic, rain will prevail in autumn by 2060 or 2070, unless carbon emissions are reduced. Earlier, it was believed that this would happen by 2090. 
Snow plays an important role in increasing the area of sea ice each winter. Consequently, reduced snowfalls mean less ice and more heat being absorbed by the open ocean surfaces. 
According to the research paper’s authors, the consequences of these changes will cause the sea levels to rise and will impact permafrost. Roads will be flooded, and many animals will starve. Scientists believe that the Arctic, which is heating up rapidly, will also cause more adverse weather phenomena, such as floods and heat waves in Europe, Asia and North America, due to changing jet streams. 
Arctic zone residents to create over 11,000 jobs in the region 
Entrepreneurs who have received the status of Russian Arctic zone residents will spend over 311 billion rubles on implementing Arctic projects. 
A year ago, the Government created a system of preferences for accelerating the region’s economic development. The business community responded eagerly to state support measures, with over 260 companies and self-employed persons using them to date. Over 19 billion rubles have already been invested in different sectors of the economy. 
New businesses in the Russian Far North will offer over 11,000 new jobs, of which 1,000 have already been created. 
First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Gadzhimagomed Guseinov chaired a meeting whose participants discussed a range of measures to improve the regime of Arctic preferences and to enhance the effectiveness of the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic, a unified development institution. 
Just over a year has passed since the regime of the Russian Federation’s Arctic zone started operating. We are working consistently with regional governments and the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic in order to facilitate all aspects of the regime’s operation and to make it more attractive for potential investors. Today, we have to focus on the following three systemic matters, namely, elaborating standard objective approaches toward evaluating resident-status applications; stipulating reduced insurance premium rates for the Russian Arctic zone residents, similar to the regimes of priority development areas and that of the Free Port of Vladivostok; and the approval of regulatory regional documents for ensuring the regime’s full-fledged operation,” the first deputy minister said, while opening the meeting. 
The Murmansk and Arkhangelsk regions and the Republic of Karelia have attracted more Arctic zone residents under preferential regimes than other territories. They account for almost 80 percent of all registered residents, who have contributed over 250 billion rubles’ worth of investment. 
In all, 93 Russian Arctic zone residents are registered in the Murmansk Region. Most companies implement projects in the area of small and medium-sized businesses and tourism. Regional authorities have introduced an additional three-year privilege for residents, who can pay reduced rates under a simplified taxation system. 
Eighty-five residents are registered in the Arkhangelsk Region. These companies implement 87 projects and have invested 31 billion rubles in them. In all, 2,000 jobs are being created. Investors mostly prefer to borrow soft loans. 
Thirty-three enterprises have resident status in the Republic of Karelia, and they implement projects worth 96 billion rubles. About four billion rubles have already been invested. The authorities are reviewing an additional 41 applications. The most popular preferences include compensation for insurance premium payment expenses and the receipt of land plots. 
The Komi Republic has registered 12 enterprises as Russian Arctic zone residents. Their stated investment volumes total 1.6 billion rubles, and there are plans to create 500 jobs. Work is underway to build a plant for manufacturing calcium carbide and alloys. A café has opened in Vorkuta, and a project to modernize production facilities and to ensure the deep processing of reindeer meat is being launched. In all, 44 organizations have applied for the status of Russian Arctic Zone residents. 
The Krasnoyarsk Territory accommodates another Russian Arctic zone resident, namely, the world’s largest project aiming to develop new Arctic oil and gas deposits. The total volume of investment in the project with the necessary infrastructure is estimated at over ten trillion rubles. Eight residents operate in the territory’s Arctic areas. Small and medium-sized businesses are entitled to regional tax preferences. 
Russian Arctic zone residents in the Yamal-Nenets Autonomous Area are planning to invest almost 17 billion rubles and to create 4,500 jobs. They are implement projects in the fields of tourism, construction and consumer services. 
Seven residents are registered in Chukotka, and the total volume of investment in projects is estimated at 2.8 billion rubles. There are plans to create 375 jobs. Work is underway to implement projects in such areas as construction, mining, air traffic, transportation, trade, medical services and tourism. The area stipulates minimal rates under a simplified taxation system, as well as regional profit and property breaks and standard land tax breaks. From January 1, 2022, it is intended to charge reduced land-plot lease rates for residents. 
Six enterprises have the status of Russian Arctic zone residents in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). Additionally, several dozen business managers are studying the possibility of implementing projects under this preferential regime. 
So far, only two residents are registered in the Nenets Autonomous Area. Seven new applications worth over 89 billion rubles are now being compiled. 
Meeting participants reviewed proposals for improving the preferential regime. It was also decided to establish a headquarters at the Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic. The new agency will deal with the regime of the Russian Federation’s Arctic zone and will involve Arctic territories and the Corporation for the Development of the Far East and the Arctic. 
Arctic Council’s first plenary meeting identifies priorities 
The first plenary meeting of the Arctic Council ended in Salekhard. For two days, 180 delegates from the Arctic Council’s member countries and 38 observer states discussed matters of the responsible administration and sustainable development of northern territories. 
Russia chaired the meeting whose participants set forth the following priorities: the life of northern residents, including indigenous ethnic groups, environmental protection, climate change, economic development, strengthening the Arctic Council and facilitating its growth. The attendees adopted a resolution in support of a youth movement of ethnic groups and inter-regional cooperation in the circumpolar world. 
Arctic states are responsible for preserving and reasonably administering this region; Russia plays a special role in this cooperation,” said Nikolai Korchunov, the Foreign Ministry’s Ambassador at Large and Chair of the Arctic Council’s Senior Arctic Officials. 
The participants also devoted individual attention to the use of Arctic seas. Experts believe that states using various shipping lanes are responsible for their maintenance. 
The Russian chairmanship also appointed Nikolai Shabalin as Special Representative for Maritime Activity in the Arctic Region. 
This representative will prioritize maritime activity in the Arctic and will support the Arctic Council’s efforts in support of future sustainable growth and the preservation of the marine environment. The Special Representative will also facilitate regional cooperation in transporting consignments via Arctic shipping lanes,” Korchunov added. 
Mikhail Pogodayev was appointed Special Representative for the Affairs of Yakutia’s Indigenous Ethnic Groups. 
Pogodayev has already emphasized the importance of cooperation and raised several issues regarding the actions of the Arctic Council’s countries in connection with climate change. He has also submitted recommendations for improving the organization’s work. 
He offered his recommendations for improving work in such areas as education, monitoring socioeconomic development, developing the indigenous population’s institutions, including the development of competences,” Korchunov noted in conclusion. 
Bank of Russia to issue commemorative coins dedicated to the Ural nuclear icebreaker 
The Bank of Russia is issuing two commemorative coins made of silver and gold with face values of 3 and 200 rubles, respectively, dedicated to the Ural nuclear icebreaker in a Nuclear Icebreaker Fleet of Russia series. 
On December 10, 2021, the Bank of Russia will issue commemorative coins on the Ural Nuclear Icebreaker in a Nuclear Icebreaker Fleet of Russia series: a silver coin with a face value of 3 rubles and a gold coin with a face value of 200 rubles,” the Central Bank of the Russian Federation posted on its website. 
On the reverse side of the silver coin is a relief image of the nuclear icebreaker Ural, with ice blocks and stars against a background of the aurora borealis – in color. At the bottom, along the circumference an inscription reads: Nuclear Icebreaker Fleet.” Circulation is limited to 3,000 pieces. 
The reverse side of the gold coin also includes relief images of the Ural nuclear icebreaker, with ice blocks and stars; and at the top right, a laser-matting degree grid. At the bottom, along the circumference, the inscription reads: Nuclear Icebreaker Fleet.” The circulation of the gold coin is 500 pieces. 
On the obverse of both coins is a relief image of the coat of arms of Russia, the inscriptions: Russian Federation,” Bank of Russia,” the face value of the coins, the date (2022), specifications for the metal and the fineness of the alloy and the weight of the precious metal clean. It also includes the St. Petersburg Mint trademark. 
Arctic Recruitment Drive to replenish staff at the Arctic’s largest enterprises 
About 3,500 Russian military personnel have applied to participate in the Arctic Recruitment program, launched by the Russian Far East and Arctic Development Corporation and Nornickel, Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Alexei Chekunkov said on Friday. 
We launched an ambitious project, <...> we toured 44 military units in the Western and Southern Military Districts; now we are starting to work in the Central Military District and in the Northern Fleet, we spoke with conscripts, <...> we invited them to come to the Krasnoyarsk Territory upon completion of their service, offered them assistance in relocation, in acquiring the necessary skills and [offered] them the opportunity to link their fate with the Arctic, to work at Nornickel and, more broadly, in the economy of the Krasnoyarsk Territory. Almost 40% applied. Note to investors: 3,500 military personnel from 44 units is a statistically significant number. Young, strong and well-trained people have shown such an interest and are ready to work in the North, provided that a proposal is correctly formulated for them,” he said at a plenary session of the 11th International Forum Arctic: Today and the Future. 
According to the minister, the project launched by the Far East and Arctic Development Corporation and Nornickel will be expanded. 
The Arctic Recruitment Drive includes a set of measures to inform servicemen and those discharged from active duty about employment opportunities at leading enterprises in the Arctic. Applicants will enjoy training for in-demand jobs, assistance in moving and further employment. 
Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic proposes drafting a document to regulate northern deliveries 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic has suggested drafting a bill that would regulate the delivery of goods to the north in order to safeguard the lives and health of people living there as well as to improve their living conditions. 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic believes it necessary to develop and adopt a bill on northern deliveries. This bill’s main goals are to safeguard the lives and health of people living in the northern areas as well as to improve their living conditions and form an integral system of state support measures for participants in the northern delivery,” Minister Alexei Chekunkov said at a meeting of the Council of Legislators’ Presidium at the Russian parliament. 
The minister suggested consolidating provisions on the distribution of functions, tasks and responsibilities to organize guaranteed deliveries to the population at all government levels: federal, regional and local, as well as to organize monitoring. 
In addition to this, we propose including a specific list of regions in the bill to ensure the execution of northern deliveries, including in order to monitor the proper functioning of each participant,” Chekunkov said. 
The head of the ministry suggested including in this bill the establishment and functioning of a federal system to monitor northern deliveries, including the monitoring of transportation and logistics, financial support, and the provision of the areas concerned with the necessary products, goods, and energy resources. 
Chekunkov also noted that a prototype of the digital twin of the northern deliveries had already been created. 
The Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) was chosen as our pilot area. In January-February, the pilot system will be tested in Yakutia, which will make it possible to build the optimal delivery route to every village, determine the costs and volume, and if the test is successful the system will be extended to other Arctic regions of the Russian Federation and all the areas falling under the concept of northern deliveries throughout 2022,” Chekunkov said. 
Previously Chekunkov announced that the ministry was developing a digital information system for northern deliveries, making it possible to improve logistics, increase the reliability of deliveries and the quality of life of those who live in the North. According to the minister, in the future, the digital twin will unite all participants in the northern deliveries into a single system: 25 regions, more than 300 ships, as well as cargo with a volume of more than 3 million tons per year. 
Experts discuss aviation accessibility and modernization of Arctic airports 
Participants in a seminar on light aviation in the Arctic, held as part of the action plan of Russia’s chairmanship of the Arctic Council, discussed the improvement of the route network in the Arctic region, the development of air transportation, the use of drones, and the coordination of search-and-rescue operations between the Arctic countries. 
Since there are no alternative types of transportation in the Arctic, passenger and freight transportation is only possible by air. The underdeveloped airport network in the Arctic region requires the development of light aviation, including the use of drones that operate at small landing pads and unpaved runways,” said Russia’s Deputy Minister of Transport Igor Chalik. 
According to Artur Chilingarov, Special Presidential Representative on International Cooperation in the Arctic and Antarctic, light aviation in the Arctic not only provides passenger and freight transportation, but also is used to carry out research, international scientific projects, and search-and-rescue operations. 
The results of the seminar on light aviation in the Arctic will be on the agenda of the next meetings of the Arctic Council’s Sustainable Development Working Group. Plans call for easing the requirements for light aviation by amending the federal aviation rules concerning requirements for carriers. 
We have developed new federal aviation rules. Actually, they are not completely new, but a review of Order 246 to establish the federal aviation rules, in terms of requirements for carriers. The process will be finished soon, and we hope that we will sign it before the end of the year. These amendments ease some requirements for carriers that have one or two planes. The requirements have been eased for fleets and company managers and, naturally, the facilities companies should have,” Dmitry Stepanko, deputy head of the Department for State Policy in Civil Aviation, said at the seminar. 
According to Stepanko, the updated rules will help to create small aviation companies that will work in remote areas, including the Arctic and the Far North. Work is also underway to reduce airport fees for light aircraft. 
Sergei Neustroyev, First Deputy Minister for the Development of the Arctic and Affairs of the Peoples of the North of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), said that light aviation was the only key to the development of the region, given that over 75 percent of Arctic regions did not have ground links with regional centers, and some of the regions had not achieved food security. For example, since August 2021, An-2 aircraft were used to perform 107 cargo flights and deliver 128 tons of food, including potatoes and other vegetables to the remote areas. 
For the first time in the past 30 years, rural residents had the opportunity to purchase fresh food in September-October at reasonable prices, and did not have to wait for the ‘green flights’ scheduled for December and January. It is noteworthy that there have been no flights to many villages since the early 2000s and even 1990s,” Neustroyev added. 
Among other participants in the seminar were representatives of transportation agencies and organizations of the member countries of the Arctic Council, members of the Sustainable Development Working Group and the Emergency Prevention, Preparedness and Response Working Group, as well as representatives of indigenous peoples of the Arctic. 
Emergencies Ministry to deploy new Arctic mine rescue teams 
In 2022, the Russian Ministry for Civil Defense, Emergencies and Natural Disasters Relief will launch an ambitious project to set up new Arctic mine rescue teams. 
Next year, we will start establishing a multi-role Arctic rescue center in Pevek, and there are plans to set up new paramilitary mine rescue teams in the Arctic zone under a large-scale project,” said Acting Emergencies Minister Alexander Chupriyan. 
According to Chupriyan, the Emergencies Ministry prioritizes efforts to maintain Arctic safety and security in view of the expanding economic projects, the development of the Northern Sea Route and the thriving local tourism industry. 
The nature of risks is changing, and fires now break out even in Far North areas, too. This year, we witnessed a rare Arctic wildfire with the tundra burning while the temperature was minus 15 degrees Celsius. Increased human presence in the Arctic zone creates additional risks of emergency situations,” he explained. 
Chupriyan recalled that, in September 2021, the Ministry had conducted a large-scale Arctic exercise for the first time. It involved 6,000 specialists from 28 ministries and agencies. During the exercise, we tested over 40 new types of equipment and accomplished more than 50 research and development tasks,” he said. 
According to Chupriyan, the Ministry is planning to invite the developers of fire-fighting and rescue technology and equipment to attend the most significant exercises, so that they can test their inventions in real-life conditions. 
Moreover, we suggest conducting comparative tests during exercises, illustrating the relative capabilities of several types of technology, equipment or gear with similar functions, but manufactured by different companies,” he said. 
On the whole, the exercise showed that Russia can independently tackle the entire range of natural and anthropogenic threats in this region. 
It would be quite hard to develop the Arctic without the Emergencies Ministry,” he said in conclusion. 
Ethno-Arctic accelerator program to kick off soon, join today! 
The Ministry for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic (Minvostokrazvitiya) is inviting travel agencies, ethnic centers, ethnic villages, self-employed individuals and organizations working in the Arctic to join the Ethno-Arctic tourism accelerator free of charge. 
According to the ministry’s press service, applications can be submitted until January 12, 2022. The accelerator is an open intensive program for developing ethnic and cultural tourism products in the Arctic. Apart from popularizing tourism in polar areas, the participants will be able to preserve the traditions of indigenous ethnic groups and to facilitate the sustainable development of regions. 
Deputy Minister for the Development of the Russian Far East and Arctic Pavel Volkov noted that over 30 applications from Murmansk, Salekhard, Norilsk and Anadyr had been received during the first week. Once the program is complete, the ministry’s experts will obtain cost-effective and interesting projects of interest to tourists and indigenous peoples. 
Participants will be selected on a competitive basis during the first stage of the multi-stage accelerator, and 15 teams will be set up. The first stage also involves various sessions, including 10 expert and three mentor meetings. The program’s finalists will obtain social media and website content, and their tourist products will be included in a guidebook on Arctic ethnic and cultural tourism. The accelerator’s main program is scheduled from January 17 through March 5, 2022. 
The accelerator is sponsored by the Information and Analytical Center of the State Commission for Arctic Development. More details about the project are available here: https://ethno.arctic-russia.ru. Participants can also submit their applications on the accelerator’s official website. 
Russian Geographical Society, Northern Fleet locate sunken ship Vaigach in the Arctic 
The icebreaker Vaigach that sank in 1918 has been located in the Kara Sea. Members of a joint expedition involving the Russian Geographical Society and the Northern Fleet confirmed the find, and its divers inspected the wreckage. 
On December 22, documents from the family archives of Admiral Boris Vilkitsky, the Vaigach’s commanding officer, and hydrographer Nikolai Yevgenov, the icebreaker’s chief of the watch, were donated to the research archive of the Russian Geographical Society. 
According to Sergei Chechyulin, head of the RGO Department for Expeditionary Activity and Tourism, specialists from the Russian Geographical Society and the Northern Fleet located the wreckages of several 20th century vessels in the Kara Sea during the third expeditionary season. 
The icebreakers Taimyr and Vaigach formed the mainstay of the 1910-1915 hydrographic expedition, whose members studied various routes along the northern Siberian shoreline. The Severnaya Zemlya Archipelago and the islands of Maly Taimyr and Starokadomsky were discovered during that expedition. 
The icebreaker Vaigach was laid down at the Nevsky Shipyard in St. Petersburg in 1907 and launched in 1908. It entered service in 1909 and served during World War I. In 1918, it sank after an accident in the Yenisei Gulf. 
North Pole platform’s first expedition scheduled for September 2022 
In September 2022, the North Pole, a unique ice-resistant and self-propelled platform, will embark on its first expedition. According to the platform’s developers, this will be a brief trial run involving researchers, due to be followed by a two-year expedition. 
The station will house various laboratories, with 30 scientists monitoring weather conditions along the Northern Sea Route and the environment. They will also conduct all kinds of research experiments. The ice-resistant platform will have an endurance of up to 24 months and a service life of other just like similar vessels is over 40 years. 
In 2018, the Government of the Russian Federation gave instructions to start building the platform. So far, there is nothing like it in Russia and the world, and the vessel is being built from scratch. Our colleagues from the Admiralty Shipyard took on this complicated project,” Russian Minister of Natural Resources and Environment Alexander Kozlov noted. 
The Admiralty Shipyard is building the oval-shaped platform on orders from the Federal Service for Hydrometeorology and Environmental Monitoring. 
Yakutia to set up three specially protected nature territories by 2024 
The Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) plans to establish the Big Toko Lake Reserve, the Laptev Sea Federal Nature Sanctuary and the Momsky National Park by 2024 under the Ecology National Project. 
The system of specially protected nature territories was established in Yakutia 25 years ago. Our colleagues from other Russian regions and from foreign countries say that our republic leads the way in preserving natural resources, and that it has skilled nature reserve personnel and an impressive potential in research,” the Republic’s Head Aisen Nikolayev said. 
Under the Ecology National Project, Yakutia has already set up the Lena Pillars National Park, the Kytalyk National Park, the Bear Islands State Nature Reserve and the New Siberian Islands State Nature Sanctuary. 
In the past few years, three specially protected federal territories have been established in the Arctic: the Kytalyk National Park, the New Siberian Islands State Nature Sanctuary and the Bear Islands State Nature Reserve. In 2021, the ALROSA-Rangifer-Chekanovsky Reserve was created in the Bulunsky District, where the main breeding stock of the Lena-Olenyok wild reindeer is concentrated. 
Cobalt, tellurium discovery and future development may hurt reindeer herding lands in Norway 
Arctic Minerals, a Nordic mineral exploration company, said it has found cobalt and tellurium in Bidjovagge, in the north of Norway. According to Gunn-Britt Retter from the Saami Council, the development of these deposits threatens indigenous people’s traditional livelihoods. 
Over the past years, exploration drilling at the Bidjovagge deposit near Kautokeino has demonstrated that this discovery has significant industrial value. 
At Bidjovagge, gold and copper were mined between 1970 and 1975 and from 1985 to 1991. In 2012, the Kautokeino municipal council decided not to renew mining operations, arguing that this activity is incompatible with reindeer husbandry. 
The Saami are among those who contribute the least to what leads to climate change, yet we are among the first to be affected by the changes,” said Gunn-Britt Retter to the Barents Observer. 
Global demand for both copper and cobalt is growing, pushed higher by the surging manufacturing of batteries for electric vehicles. Tellurium, a by-product of the copper smelting process, is used in solar panels and is also believed to be a promising component for next-generation batteries due to its ability to support high energy density. 
International space search-and-rescue system to include Arktika-M satellite 
Russia plans to make the elliptical Arktika-M hydrometeorological system part of the COSPAS-SARSAT international space search-and-rescue system. Participants in the annual 35th meeting of the COSPAS-SARSAT Joint Committee (OK-35) discussed the system’s operation and its future plans. 
Russian experts attending the meeting noted that, in 2022-2025, Russia will be conducting tests for assessing the Arktika-M satellite’s specifications and performance. This will help make Arktika-M remote sensing satellites part of the COSPAS-SARSAT system. The tests will be similar to the Elektro-L and Luch-5A satellite system tests. After the tests and the launch of the second Arktika-M satellite, the specifications and performance will be updated, and essential amendments to both systems’ standards drafted. 
Incoming Arktika-M data will make it possible to quickly locate aircraft during in-flight emergencies,” the Roscosmos press service said. 
The search-and-rescue system now uses four low Earth orbit satellites, ten geostationary and 42 medium Earth orbit satellites. 
Canada, France, the Soviet Union and the United States drafted the COSPAS-SARSAT international program in the interests of the entire world. This association currently includes over 45 states and organizations. 
Climate change 
Arctic climate is highly variable and strongly influenced by the polar ocean and continental land masses. Moreover, the region as a whole is under the influence of the North Pole. The main feature of the Arctic climate is low temperatures throughout year. 
During the polar night the Arctic does not receive any sunlight and warmth. The surface of the Arctic is cooling off for 50-150 days in a row. 
During summer, the Arctic receives many hours of sunlight; however, snow and ice surfaces reflect much of it, softening the radiation — this phenomenon is known as the albedo effect. 
Also, the sun's low angle above the horizon creates shading by even minor topographic features such as low hills. This too limits heat gain, and results in a variety of local microclimates. 
Maritime (ocean-tempered) conditions prevail over the Arctic Ocean, coastal Alaska, Iceland, northern Norway, and adjoining coastal sections of Russia. These locations undergo cold and stormy winters, while summers are mild, with mean temperatures of about 10˚ C. Annual precipitation averages between 60 and 125 centimeters, with about six months of snow cover. Coastal areas may experience hurricane-force winds that persist for days, or even weeks. 
In the interior, continental stretches of the Arctic, winters are far harsher than on the coasts, although cloud cover and, therefore, precipitation are reduced. Here, permafrost is widespread and often deep. During summer, typically one to two meters of the ground thaw and remain mostly waterlogged. However, permafrost temperatures have been rising due to climate change, and thawing is penetrating deeper in some areas. 
While frost may occur in any month, long summer days usually provide three months with mean temperatures above 10° C. 
The most favorable weather conditions are found in the Atlantic-European part of the Arctic. Thus, in January, the mean temperature at Svalbard is about — 17°C. The reason is that cyclones are quite common in this part of the Arctic in winter; they bring warm air from the Atlantic, but with them come heavy precipitation and strong wind. March is the coldest month of the year in that area. In summer, the temperature in the Atlantic-European part of the Arctic is about 10°C. The climate of Greenland is the most severe; about 80% of the island is covered with ice. 
The average depth of the Greenland Ice Shield is 2,135 m. The sheet's thickness reaches up to 3,000 m. The age of the ice is estimated at about 110,000 years. The sheet lies at the island's center, is separated by a strip of land from the sea, and in places its borders run along the coast. 
In the southern part of the island the mean winter temperature is about —10°C, in the north it is — 30° C, and in the center it is about — 50°C. Summer in Greenland is also cold: in the central part of the island it is — 14°C, and in the south the temperature rises up to +10°C. 
Low-pressure systems, such as the Icelandic Low and the Aleutian Low, control the weather in many Arctic and subarctic areas. These systems generally are weak during summers, but stronger in winters. In contrast, high pressure (the Siberian High) dominates eastern Eurasian winters. Year-round, the strongest average winds occur in the North Atlantic seas (Barents, Greenland, etc.), Baffin Bay, and the Bering and Chukchi seas, where cyclone activity is most common. On the Atlantic side, winter wind speeds can approach 180 km/h. 
Arctic precipitation occurs mostly as snow, with less than 50 centimeters of precipitation falling annually in most areas. However, meteorological observations show that precipitation levels across the region vary by almost a factor of 10, with some parts of the Arctic Basin and Canadian Archipelago receiving less than 150 millimeters (mm) annually, while parts of southeast Greenland get more than 1200 mm annually. 
Average January temperatures range from about —40 to 0° C (-40 to +32° F), while winter temperatures can drop below —50° C (-58° F) over large parts of the Arctic. Average July temperatures range from about —10 to +10° C (14 to 50° F), with some land areas occasionally exceeding 30° C (86° F) in summer. 
Contacts 
Arctic.ru is a special project by Rossiya Segodnya. It was launched on August 1, 2015 with sponsorship from the Russian Geographical Society. The website is currently the only national-level source of information on Russia's presence in the Arctic. Over half (60 percent) of the website visits are from other countries, including the US, the UK, Canada, China, India, Germany, France, Norway, and Australia. 
Natural resources, Northern Sea Route infrastructure, the economy and international cooperation in the Arctic, the environment, and the preservation of the indigenous peoples of the North, and tourism and recreation in the Arctic region are just a few of the topics covered at Arctic.ru. The website publishes urgent news and analytics, photo- and video feeds, interviews with local and high-ranking officials, travelers and researchers, and journals from Arctic expeditions in English and in Russian. 
The project uses the latest journalistic formats including online webinars with researchers that allow viewers to directly put questions to the speaker, unique games and quizzes, and interactive infographics and long-reads. 
Arctic.ru is an information partner for several major events: the Arctic: Territory of Dialog forum, the Arctic: the Present and Future international forum, the Arctic Days in Moscow forum, and the Arctic Media World International Circumpolar Mass Media Congress among others. 
Arctic.ru has official accounts on global social networks including VK, Facebook and Odnoklassniki, and is present in the Google and Yandex news feeds in both English and Russian. 
Official banner 
If you would like to display our banner on your website, we request that you inform us at info@arctic.ru. Please write "Notification: arctic.ru banner use on our website" in the subject field. 
Ecology 
The Arctic covers an enormous region of around 30 million square kilometers. The indigenous population of the Arctic consists of over 30 peoples who speak dozens of languages. In terms of climate, the Arctic is regarded as the region where the average temperature for July remains below 10°C. This isotherm approximately traces the ‘tree line'-beyond which conditions are generally too severe for trees to thrive. The geographic and climatic boundaries for the Arctic differ somewhat. For example, although Iceland lies south of the Arctic Circle, it falls largely below the 10°C isotherm. The geographic and climatic boundaries for the Arctic differ somewhat. For example, although Iceland lies south of the Arctic Circle, it falls largely below the 10°C isotherm. Wildlife and environment of the Arctic are unique. The region is home to more than 20, 000 species of plants, animals, mushrooms, and microorganisms, many of which are endemic. 
Active natural resource development and global warming have negative impact on the Arctic environment. Many researchers link the ice pack melting in the region to this environmental degradation. Other scientists consider this process to be part of a natural cycle and expect the situation to drastically change with time. 
The decline in sea ice volume in some cases results in polar bear drownings when the bears, exhausted after hunting, cannot swim from one ice formation to another. Also, the reflecting power of snow decreases due to industrial emissions. 
The Arctic is the Earth's northern polar area and includes the Arctic Ocean and its seas: the Greenland Sea, the Barents Sea, the Kara Sea, the Laptev Sea, the East Siberian Sea, the Chukchi Sea, the Beaufort Sea, as well as Baffin Bay, the Foxe Basin, numerous straits and bays of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, the northern parts of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans; the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, Greenland, Spitsbergen, Franz Josef Land, Novaya Zemlya, Severnaya Zemlya, Novosibirsk Islands and Wrangel Island, as well as the northern coasts of the continents of Eurasia and North America. 
Economy 
The economic situation of the circumpolar Arctic is distinct among world regions. The formal economy is based on the large-scale exploitation of natural resources; however, traditional hunting and gathering, fishing, and animal husbandry also continue to be important to northern peoples. Arctic sub-regions depend strongly on their mother economies in the south, and the central governments of Arctic states support much of the overall consumption through transfer payments to local agencies and individuals. In general, the Far North plays an asymmetrical role in the world economy, exporting considerable quantities of raw materials and importing most of the finished products needed to meet internal demands. 
Russia and the United States (Alaska) represent the largest economic powers in the Arctic, mainly because of their impressive stakes in petroleum and mining activities. The Russian Federation, which encompasses the biggest and most populated territory in the Far North, produces about two-thirds of the region's total wealth. 
With their comparatively dense populations, Iceland, Norway, Sweden and Finland are the most economically diversified. All have highly advanced communication networks, transportation infrastructures, and commercial and public services. The Canadian Arctic, with its widely dispersed population and considerably less diversified economic base, accounts for a more modest share of the overall regional economic output. Areas where traditional subsistence activities (e.g., hunting, reindeer herding, and fishing) predominate-such as in Greenland, northern Canada, northern Russia, and Scandinavia-have much lower economic output. 
The industrial-scale extraction and limited processing of natural resources-oil, gas, minerals, and metals-is an important area of the Arctic states' economy. 
Most importantly, Arctic Russia, Norway, Canada, and Alaska, have produced billions of cubic meters of oil and gas over recent decades. 
Russia owns vast northern reserves of gold (found in the areas of Magadan and Chukotka), nickel (Murmansk, Krasnoyarsk), tin (Sakha, Chukotka), and diamonds (Sakha), as well as massive oil and gas fields, particularly in the Yamalo-Nenets and Khanty-Mansii Autonomous Okrugs. Likewise, Canada has developed considerable mineral and petroleum operations in the Northwest Territories, Nunavut, and Nunavik. Alaska withdraws great quantities of oil from the Prudhoe Bay area of the state's northern coast, and Norway and Sweden have considerable northern mineral holdings. 
In some locations resource extraction has resulted in economic spin-off effects such as the construction and operation of infrastructure (roads, ports, and airports) and the organization of services (transportation, retailing, and housing). 
Fishing (including commercial and subsistence) represents the most lucrative use of Arctic living resources and it is a mainstay in the Arctic economy. Fisheries are widespread along the coasts of northern Norway, northern Russia, and Alaska. The sector involves significant numbers of jobs not only for fishers, but also equipment suppliers, processing plants, retailers, exporters, and other enterprises. 
The Bering and Barents seas and waters around Greenland and Iceland yield a considerable fraction of the global marine catch. Over half of the total U.S. fish catch comes from the Bering. About four-fifths of Iceland's export income is derived from commercial fishing. Kinds of marine fish targeted include navaga, pollock, halibut, redfish, capelin, herring, wolffishes, and several species of cod. 
Lake and river fishing in the interior Arctic also generates income and supplies food for local communities. Atlantic and Pacific salmon, whitefish, sturgeon, and varieties of lake trout, char, and grayling are plentiful in many areas. Similarly, some indigenous people continue to hunt marine mammals such as seals and whales. 
Manufacturing is very limited and poorly diversified in the Arctic, so most goods and commodities are imported. A few exceptions stand out. Fish processing occurs in Iceland and Greenland, with most of the products shipped out. In some parts of northern Russia, particularly near mining sites on the Kola Peninsula, minerals are refined for export. And, a robust electronics industry thrives around Oulu in northern Finland, providing several thousand jobs there. 
The service sector-which encompasses private businesses and public services such as education, health care, and administration-accounts for about two-thirds of the economy in most areas of the Arctic (except for northern Russia, where it represents roughly half). 
Geography 
The Arctic is the Earth's northern polar area and includes the Arctic Ocean and its seas: the Greenland Sea, the Barents Sea, the Kara Sea, the Laptev Sea, the East Siberian Sea, the Chukchi Sea, the Beaufort Sea, as well as Baffin Bay, the Foxe Basin, numerous straits and bays of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, the northern parts of the Pacific and Atlantic oceans; the Canadian Arctic Archipelago, Greenland, Spitsbergen, Franz Josef Land, Novaya Zemlya, Severnaya Zemlya, Novosibirsk Islands and Wrangel Island, as well as the northern coasts of the continents of Eurasia and North America. 
The Arctic covers an enormous region of around 30 million square kilometers. The indigenous population of the Arctic consists of over 30 peoples who speak dozens of languages. 
While it is considered a distinct region, the Arctic can be defined in a number of different ways. One way is to mark the border by 66° 33' North latitude (the Arctic Circle), which is also the boundary of the "land of the midnight sun." Above this latitude the sun remains above the horizon all day for a period during summer and stays below the horizon all day for a period during winter. These phenomena are called "polar day" and "polar night". 
In terms of climate, the Arctic is regarded as the region where the average temperature for July remains below 10°C. This isotherm approximately traces the ‘tree line'-beyond which conditions are generally too severe for trees to thrive. 
The geographic and climatic boundaries for the Arctic differ somewhat. For example, although Iceland lies south of the Arctic Circle, it falls largely below the 10°C isotherm. 
The Arctic's total land area-approximately 14 million square kilometers-consists of the northernmost territories of the eight Arctic states: Russia, Canada, Greenland (an autonomous country under Denmark), the United States (Alaska), Iceland, Norway, Sweden, and Finland. The Russian Federation and Canada account for nearly 80 percent of the land; the Nordic countries, about 16 percent; and the United States some 4 percent. The Arctic Ocean, which surrounds the North Pole and is largely frozen for much of the year, occupies about one-third of the region. 
The Arctic can be divided into several geographic sub-regions. These include: Russian Arctic; Canadian Arctic; Greenland (Kalaallit Nunaat); Northern Alaska (United States); Svalbard (Norway); Iceland; Fennoscandia. 
The islands of the Russian Arctic are numerous, including Kolguyev Island, Severnaya Zemlya, Novaya Zemlya, Franz Josef Land, New Siberian Islands, and others. The Russian Arctic also includes, fully or partially, the territories of the Sakha Republic (Yakutiya), Murmanks and Arkhangelsk Regions, Nenets, Yamalo-Nenets and Chukchi Autonomous Regions and Taymyr peninsula. 
Population 
Many Arctic areas were settled over 10,000 years ago, followed by northern areas of the Canadian Arctic Archipelago and Greenland. 
The Arctic's inhospitable weather and other environmental challenges have limited human activity and settlement. The region represents one of the least populated areas in the world, with sparse nomadic communities and very few large cities and towns. 
Approximately half of the Arctic population lives in Russia. The three most numerous population centers above the Arctic Circle lie in Russia: Murmansk (population around 300,000), Norilsk (over 170,000), and Vorkuta (around 60,000). Tromsø, Norway has about 71,000 inhabitants, and Reykjavík, Iceland has more than 100,000. There are no permanent settlements above 78° north latitude. 
Most of the roughly four million inhabitants live on lands bordering the Arctic Ocean. The population is a mix of Caucasians and several major groups of indigenous peoples who have lived on north polar lands for centuries. Caucasians make up sizable fractions of Siberia's and Greenland's populations, and a near-majority in Iceland. During the 20th century, immigrants flocked to the Arctic, attracted mostly by job opportunities in natural resource development. This influx significantly altered the balance between non-indigenous and indigenous people in many areas. 
Among European peoples, Russians were the earliest settlers of the Arctic. Ethnic groups of Russians that formed in the Arctic include the Pomors, Ust-Tsilems, Markovtsy, Kolymchans, and Gizhigans. The current populations of these groups are small. 
The most homogeneous ethnic group, comprising the Inuit in Canada and Greenland, lives in the American Arctic. There are over 170,000 Inuit, including 1,500 in Siberia and south-western Alaska. 
The Caucasian population primarily lives in large cities south of the Arctic Circle, including Whitehorse (Yukon Territory), Yellowknife (Northwest Territories), Fairbanks and Anchorage (Alaska) and Nuuk/Godthab (Greenland). Although the Inuit population is dominant in northern Alaska, numerous newcomers work at local oil rigs. 
Coastal areas of the Arctic are also home to Yakuts (500,000 people), Dolgans (over 7,000 people), Evenks, Evens (over 21,000 people), Karelians, Nenets, Chukchi, Koryaks, and others. 
The chief modern-day aboriginal groups include the Kola Saami (Lapps) of Europe; the Samoyedes of western Russia; the Yakuts, Tungus, Yukaghirs, and Chukchis of eastern Russia; and the North American Eskimos-Aleuts, whose many sub-groups inhabit the coastline from the Bering Sea to Greenland and the Chukchi Peninsula in northeast Siberia. 
The longstanding term "Eskimo" is still used as a general name for western Arctic groups. However, today many of these native peoples — such as the Inuit of northern Canada, Kalaallit of Greenland, Inupiat of Northern Alaska, and Yupik of southwestern Alaska, prefer to be called by their specific indigenous names. 
Once completely nomadic, these groups now are mostly sedentary or seminomadic, practicing traditional methods of hunting, fishing, reindeer herding, and indigenous arts and crafts. Many individuals are taking up employment in urban areas and slowly incorporating into the societies of the countries in which they live. However, many others favor a move toward self-governance. There are also strong concerns over industrial development on Arctic lands and its potential impacts on traditional activities such as reindeer herding. 
Six indigenous councils are represented on the Arctic Council: the Aleut International Association, the Arctic Athabaskan Council, the Gwich'in Council International, the Inuit Circumpolar Council, the Russian Association of Indigenous Peoples of the North (RAIPON), and the Saami Council. 
Tourism and recreation 
Russia 
In recent years there has been an upsurge of Arctic tourism in Russia. Previously the Russian Arctic was visited almost exclusively by foreigners, but these days Russian tourists are showing growing interest in this northernmost region. Russia has significant potential to develop this area. The Russian zone is the biggest in the Arctic, and it is rich in tourist attractions: vast expanses of tundra and forest-tundra, with an abundance of wildlife; islands featuring polar desert and semi-desert terrain; innumerable mountains, lakes, and streams offering recreational opportunities; the highest ethnic diversity in the Arctic, including indigenous peoples; and historical artifacts and monuments. 
There live nearly every species of Arctic mammal, including polar bears, Arctic foxes, Greenland whales, narwhals, belukha whales, Atlantic walruses, ringed seals, bearded seals, and Greenland seals; an estimated one million wild reindeer; and about 1000 varieties of plants. In the Russian Arctic tourists can enjoy a variety of activities: sea cruises, boating, fishing and hunting tours, rafting, skiing, walking tours and many others. 
One of the most popular destinations is the North Pole. Tourists can travel to the "Top of the world" by a nuclear-powered icebreaker, arrange "Polar" barbeque, and even swim in the Arctic Ocean. Visitors can reach the islands of Franz-Joseph Land archipelago, either by a cruise ship, or a helicopter. 
The Arctic's biggest seaport, Murmansk boasts comfortable hotels and numerous museums and historical monuments, while the nearby Khibins and Lovozero mountain ranges are ideal settings for mountaineering, hiking, skiing, mountain bicycling, dog sledding, and other sports. 
Organized excursions allow tourists to explore points of interest such as the ancient stone labyrinths and rock carvings on the coast of the Kola Peninsula; Saami cultural artifacts in and around Lovozero; and Russian historical monuments along the shores of the White Sea. 
Other tourist favorites are sea cruises to the Solovki Islands, paddle-boat cruises, rafting on Archangelsk's numerous rivers, and winter snowmobile tours. The region's national parks and more than 30 nature sanctuaries will likely encourage the further development of ecotourism there. 
Northern Sea museum in Arkhangelsk is also worth visiting. 
National Park Yugyd Va is situated in the northern Ural Mountains of the Republic of Komi. The park's abundance of wildlife includes some 180 bird species and 20 varieties of fish, along with mammals such the mountain hare, flying squirrel, reindeer, ermine, otter, moose, wolf, and fox. 
Tourists can also visit the "Russian Arctic" national park, founded in 2009. The main attractions there are a walrus rookery at Apollonov island, the wooden House of Eira built in 1881 on Bell Island, Tikhaya Bay, the capital of the archipelago in the Soviet times, bird paradise on the Rubini Rock, and a garden of stone spheres at the Champ Island. 
The region hosts spectacular waterfalls and numerous deepwater lakes, diverse freshwater fish life, and huge colonies of seabirds, as well as walrus rookeries and occasional polar bears on the coast. Taimyr is home to the world's largest herd of wild reindeer. 
The area also has four natural reserves, including the Big Arctic and Taimyr Biosphere reserves. Other highlights include stunning Lake Taimyr, hunting and fishing tours in the Yenisei river basin, rafting on the numerous waterways, ethnographic tours to witness the lifestyles of various indigenous peoples. 
Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) The village of Oimyakon is situated in Republic of Sakha (Yakutia). It is the village which experiences the lowest recorded temperatures for any permanently inhabited location on Earth. 
From these points visitors can make "extreme expeditions" and take ethnographic tours; go rafting, ice angling, and bird-watching. 
Also known as the Chukchi Peninsula, this region is known for the Wrangel Island State Reserve (the biggest in the Arctic). 
Kamchatka Peninsula is famous for its volcanoes, both active and extinct. 
Norway 
Norway tourist attractions are alpine mountains, glaciers, highlands, deep valleys, breathtaking fjords, thousands of islands, the northern lights and the midnight sun, cultural and historic riches. 
The rich variety of wildlife on and around the islands of Arctic Norway includes walrus, polar bear, wild reindeer, Arctic fox, whales, seals and a variety of migratory birds. 
Many cruise routes start in Tromsø, the capital of Arctic Norway. 
It is a bustling, colorful city with a lively arts and cultural scene that includes a theater and symphony orchestra, Arctic cuisine, and plentiful chances to explore the nearby mountains and waterways. 
From late May to late July, visitors can experience the midnight sun in Tromsø. And the area claims to be among the best places to observe the northern lights, which are most dramatic in October, February and March. 
This area stretches from the Swedish mountains to the coast of Helgeland, embracing scenic wonders from glaciers and alpine mountains to deep fjords and countless islands, where visitors can observe large bird and seal colonies, historic settlements, and rich flora. Ship cruises from Tromso to Trondheim allow passengers to experience some of this stunning scenery and stop at key landmarks. Other area highlights include: Svartisen Glacier, on Nordfjord; Okstindan Glacier and nearby Røssvatnet, Norway's second largest lake; Saltfjellet-Svartisen National Park; and Saltstraumen, the world's most powerful maelstrom. Visitors can also visit settlements of the Saami people, historic churches, and museums. 
Svalbard Islands located halfway between Norway and the North Pole, these islands consist largely of protected areas such as nature reserves, national parks, and bird sanctuaries. Norway's largest glacier, Austfonna, also is found here. The rich variety of island wildlife includes polar bear, wild reindeer, arctic fox, walrus, whales, seals, and a variety of migratory birds. Visitors can partake in boat cruises along the spectacular Spitzbergen coast; glacier walks and ice caving; dog sledging, snowmobile safaris, and skiing; hiking and excursions. 
Yet another tourist attraction in Norway is Finnmarksvidda, one of the biggest plateaus situated in the north of the country. It is also home to the country's indigenous Saami people, who first came to the Arctic more than 11,000 years ago. There are two national parks: Øvre Anarjohka and Stabbursdalen, which boasts the northernmost pine forest in the world. Activity highlights in this region include hiking, camping and fishing; cross-country skiing, snowmobile safaris and dog sledging; and watching the Finnmarksløpet, the world's northernmost annual sled dog race. The Saami theme park in Finnmark depicts their way of life, and sponsors excursions that allow visitors to join in reindeer herding. 
Sweden 
Vast landscapes that feature towering alpine peaks, 4,000-plus lakes, pine forests, meadows, and glaciers; national parks; a southeastern coastline peppered by islands; opportunities to experience the Saami culture; the northern lights and three months of midnight sun — all of these people can see is Sweden. 
Arvidsjaur is located near the Arctic Circle. During winter and early spring, multi-day eco-tours provide unique opportunities for getting acquainted with the indigenous "people of the reindeer," the Saami, who have called the Arctic their homeland for millennia. The trips include the chance to help herd reindeer, eat traditional food and sleep in Saami tepees, and explore the tundra with a native guide. 
Laponia is designated an UNESCO World Heritage site for its amazing natural features and historic importance to the Saami culture. The area encompasses close to 10,000 square kilometers of alpine massifs and valleys, glaciers, lakes, springs, and wetlands. There are 4 national parks in Laponia. Three of them —Stora Sjöfallet, Padjelanta, and Sarek-together form Europe´s largest national park. 
Abisko National Park, overlooking the Lapp Gateway mountain formation, is a popular and accessible destination for hikers and skiers. The park is the start/finish point of the 440-kilometer King´s Trail, a marked route through some of Northern Europe´s most magnificent scenery, with accommodations along the way. 
An annual phenomenon in Jukkasjärvi, the Ice Hotel, is built from the frozen waters of the Torne River every winter, and melts every summer. It is open from December to April, and has to be built anew every year. 
Riksgränsen is well-known for its ski resorts and serves as the launch point for many winter and summer adventures, such as all types of skiing, snowmobiling and dog-sledding. 
Yet another center for winter activities is Pite Havsbad situated on the Gulf of Bothnia about 900 kilometers north of Stockholm. 
Finland 
In Arctic Finland tourists can enjoy outstanding natural landscapes that include pine forest and hundreds of lakes and rivers, visit local history museums and cultural sites, watch the northern lights and experience three months of midnight sun. 
One of the most popular tourist attractions in the country is the Finnish capital of Lapland, Rovaniemi. In this city, there is a unique exhibition and Arctic research center. Moreover, it is Rovaniemi that enjoys the status of the official home of Santa Claus. You can meet him and watch his elves at work in the Santa Claus Village. Needless to say, Rovaniemi celebrates Christmas spirit throughout the year. 
This resort area in the middle of Finnish Lapland is located near Pyhä-Luosto National Park. The area provides the setting for a range of summer and winter activities, including canoeing, fishing, bicycling, swimming. 
Another famous site is Urho Kekkonen National Park. Located in the northern hinterland of Finland, this park contains pristine forests, spectacular river gorges, and forest landscapes ideal for summer hiking as well as skiing and snowshoeing in winter. Reindeer herds still migrate through this area, and there are even remnants of ancient settlements of herders. Tours are available for visiting several Saami villages and the Saami Museum, the North Lapland Nature Centre, and Tankavaara Gold Village. 
Iceland 
Raw, dramatic landscapes born from volcanic eruptions and carved out by glaciers: basaltic peaks, geysers, waterfalls, glacial rivers flowing through lowlands to the sea, lava deserts, and black sand beaches; historical and cultural museums; many national parks and protected nature areas. 
One of the biggest tourist centers in Iceland is Reykjavik. Sites of interest in Reykjavík include the parliament building, National Centre for Cultural Heritage, National Museum of Iceland, and an archaeological exhibition of a Viking house at Reykjavik City Museum. It will take visitors 40 minutes to go from the city to the Blue Lagoon, a geothermal spa resort with pools and beaches. Reykjavik is the starting point for many organized tours and excursions around the country. 
Vatnajökull National Park spanning 12,000 square kilometers in southeastern Iceland, this is Europe's largest national park.Named for Europe's largest glacier, the park showcases the effects of the perennial battle between earth and fire that has shaped the island: ice caps, outlet glaciers, hot thermal springs, fumaroles, sub-glacial volcanic activity, volcanic mountains and other landforms. Few other places in the world exhibit such a wide range of the effects of natural forces. 
Thingvellir (Þingvellir) National Park located in southwestern Iceland, this park lies in a rift valley between the American and Eurasian continental tectonic plates. Thingvallavatn, the largest Icelandic natural lake, is situated there. Close to the park, there are a number of thermal springs, including the famous Geyser (Geysir). 
Egilsstaðir is the capital of East Iceland and a doorway to the stunning East Fjords and surrounding moorlands. 
Located in northern Iceland, Jökulsárgljúfur National Park features spectacular canyons and powerful waterfalls. The small coastal town of Húsavík nearby is considered the "Whale Watching Capital of Europe." 
Snæfellsjökull National Park, situated in far western Iceland showcases fantastic landforms from volcanic mountaintops to the seashore. Westman Islands are yet another famous tourist attraction of Iceland. This island group is especially known for seabird diversity, which includes puffins numbering in the millions. 
Greenland 
Breathtaking coastal scenery with deep fiords, massive glaciers, icebergs, and abundant marine wildlife; Viking ruins, indigenous cultures, and the world's largest national park. Greenlandic waters are home to a variety of seals, walruses and whales. There are numerous ancient Norse ruins on the western fjords; sailing trips to those places are available almost year-round, so one can enjoy not only the archeological sites, but also watching the animals in the wild. 
Ilulissat Icefjord, situated on Disko Bay, is Greenland's biggest natural attraction and a UNESCO World Heritage Site. 
Owing to the fjord's gigantic icebergs and one of the world's most active glaciers, Sermeq Kujalleq. 
Known for its huge icebergs, the midnight sun's everlasting light, and scope of activities on sea and land, this is one of the most popular tourist areas. It also supports an Inuit population that continues its timeless cultural traditions and practices seal hunting and fishing. The settlement at Qaanaaq was the starting point for polar expeditions by Knud Rasmussen, as well as Robert Peary's 1909 attempt to reach the North Pole. Many tourists now are seeing North Greenland from the decks of cruise ships that ply the coastal waters. Summer and winter activities offered in North Greenland range from dogsledding and kayaking to sailing and helicopter tours. 
Situated on the coast, Greenland's capital Nuuk, is mix of the old and the new. The town's historic attractions, such as the cathedral Nuuk and the National Museum, mingle with the modernistic architecture of the Katuaq cultural center. 
Other coastal towns of West Greenland, whose populations comprise about half of Greenland's 57,000 residents, bear traces of past Inuit settlements. Numerous Norse ruins also are found on the western fjords, where sailing trips are available almost year-round and the chances for sighting whales and seals are good. Other tourist highlights include musk-ox safaris, dog sledding, whale-watching trips, airplane flights to the Greenland Ice Sheet, fishing, hiking, and cross-country skiing. 
Known for some of the country's best-preserved Norse ruins, the towns of Narsaq, Qaqortoq, and Nanortalik are starting points for culture and nature excursions. Mountain climbing and farm holidays are also popular with visitors. From the travel hub of Narsarsuaq, visitors can embark on sailing trips to glacier-studded fiords, hiking and fishing excursions, and kayaking and mountain biking trips. For the most dedicated adventurers, trekking across the ice sheet can be arranged. 
The biggest attraction on the east of Greenland is Greenland National Park. The world's largest national park, it covers almost one million square kilometers (386,000 square miles) and harbors representatives of nearly all of Greenland's flora and fauna. 
USA (Alaska) 
Alaska is the biggest of the US states. Lodging is available in the towns of Barrow, Kotzebue, Deadhorse, Coldfoot, and Kaktovik. Because of lack of roads, trips outside the towns are by boat, small plane, all-terrain vehicles, snowmobiles, and dogsleds.Vast expanses of tundra and mountain wilderness, the Brooks Mountain Range, several wildlife refuges and national parks, wildlife spectacles of millions of migratory birds and herds of caribou — all of these you can see on Alaska. Polar, black, and brown bears; wolves, moose, musk oxen, Dall sheep, porcupines, northern flying squirrels, beavers, and foxes; and more than 200 bird species, including swans, geese, ducks, northern shrikes, ptarmigans and shorebirds; peregrine falcons, eagles, hawks, jaegers, and owls; freshwater fish such as grayling, lake trout, northern pike, arctic char, whitefish and salmon. 
Located not far from the Prudhoe Bay oil fields, this is the largest settlement in the region and the northernmost community in the United States. A top-rated bird-watching spot, in summer it hosts nearly 200 species of birds. The Inupiat Heritage Center in Barrow documents the history of whaling among Alaska natives. Some villagers still hunt bowhead whales and live off the land. 
Another popular tourist attraction in Alaska is Gates of the Arctic National Park. 
This park features high glaciers, rocks, six National Wild and Scenic rivers and much of Alaska wildlife. Roughly the size of Switzerland, the park also cradles the headwaters of the Noatak River drainage, a UNESCO biosphere reserve. There are no established roads, trails, visitor facilities, or campgrounds in the park, but commercial and self-guided excursions are possible. 
Located to the east of Prudhoe Bay, there is Arctic National Wildlife Refuge (ANWR), the largest in the U.S.Spanning nearly 20 million acres (more than 77,000 square kilometers) of coastal plains, barrier islands, lagoons, salt marshes, scenic rivers and wetlands, ANWR conserves a greater variety of plant and animal life than any other protected area north of the Arctic Circle. The refuge is also home to major caribou herds and seals, critical resources for the Inuit people. 
Various tour operators offer specialized trips for the rafters, fishermen, bird watchers, wildlife photographers, hikers, hunters, and kayakers who visit annually. 
This wildlife haven encompasses the delta created by the Yukon and Kuskokwim rivers, as well as a huge expanse of coastal plain extending to the Bering Sea. A richly productive habitat, this refuge supports one of the world's largest concentrations of waterbirds and 150,000-plus caribou, while the offshore waters are home to walruses, seals and otters as well as belukhas, porpoises, gray and minke whales. 
In the ANWR, there are about 30 localities inhabited by Yup'iks, an indigenous Arctic people. 
Canada 
Stretching across thousands of miles of North America's most extreme hinterland, Canada's Arctic territories-the northernmost portions of the Yukon, Northwest Territories, and Nunavut-offer sparsely populated and largely untouched landscapes. 
For adventuresome travelers there's a wealth of opportunities for unparalleled wilderness experiences and chances to experience aboriginal traditions. 
Popular tourist activities in the Arctic Canada are sea cruises, wilderness excursions, wildlife viewing, hiking, camping, fishing, canoeing, river rafting, archeological and cultural tours, skiing, dog sledding. 
The northwest corner of the Yukon above the Arctic Circle, is part of a Traditional Territory where the Vuntut Gwitchin First Nation people have lived for thousands of years. The only truly Arctic Yukon settlement is Old Crow, a small town of about 300 aboriginal people on the Porcupine River, near the Alaska-Yukon border. Old Crow is accessible only by aircraft or canoe. 
Unlike much of Arctic Canada, the mountains of national park Ivvavik escaped glaciation during the last glacial period 30,000 to 14,000 years ago. Ivvavik was part of the vast ice-free territory called Beringia, which was connected with Eastern Siberia via a wide land bridge. Beringia served as a refuge for plants, wildlife and humans, all of which colonized surrounding lands when the continental ice sheets melted. 
In the Arctic part of Canada's Northwest, 170 km north of the Arctic Circle, Tuktut Nogait (‘young caribou') National Park is situated. 
A major breeding and nesting ground for a wide variety of migratory birds. 
Most of the park is continuous tundra, with rolling terrain, wild rivers, and precipitous canyons. The park offers seasoned hikers opportunities to experience a spectacular Arctic landscape with undisturbed ecosystems and an estimated 360 prehistoric cultural sites. Visitors can also paddle the Hornaday River, and enjoy bird-watching, photography, and fishing. 
Tourists can also visit Nunavut, the biggest Canadian Arctic Province. 
The population there is more than 80 percent Inuit, and the past evidence of the region's indigenous people, including the ancient Thule and Dorset cultures, is scattered across the land. 
Nunavut is accessible only by air and sea, and its small communities are widely separated. Nonetheless, accommodations, transportation and other services for travelers wanting to explore this enormous and spectacular region are surprisingly well developed. Cruise-ship operators offer a wide variety of sea cruises that pass through magnificent vistas of mountains, glaciers, icebergs, and marine wildlife. Ecologically-oriented cruises emphasize cultural, wildlife and nature programs. The wide spectrum of activities here ranges from dog-sledding excursions on the tundra, winter camping, and wilderness cross-country skiing, to sea kayaking, sport fishing, and exploring expeditions. 
